<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 229 (Tuesday, December 2, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 229 (Tuesday, December 2, 2025)]
[Notices]
[Pages 55335-55339]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-21745]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Office of the Secretary

[Docket No. DOT-OST-2025-1359]


Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records

AGENCY: Office of the Departmental Chief Information Officer, Office of 
the Secretary of Transportation, Department of Transportation (DOT).

ACTION: Notice of a modified System of Records.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, the Department of 
Transportation (DOT), Office of the Secretary (OST), proposes to 
rename, update, and reissue an existing system of records titled, 
``DOT/ALL 7--Departmental Accounting and Financial Information System 
(DAFIS) and Delphi Accounting System.'' The name of this system of 
records notice will be changed to ``DOT/ALL 7--DOT Financial Management 
Records''. The records in the system are used to perform transaction 
based financial management functions and mandated government reporting.

DATES: Submit comments on or before January 2, 2026. The Department may 
publish an amended Systems of Records Notice considering any comments 
received. This modified system will be effective immediately upon 
publication. The routine uses will be effective January 2, 2026.

ADDRESSES: You may submit comments, identified by docket number DOT-
OST-2025-1359 by one of the following methods:
    <bullet> Federal e-Rulemaking Portal: <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>. 
Follow the instructions for submitting comments.
    <bullet> Mail: Department of Transportation Docket Management, Room 
W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590.
    <bullet> Hand Delivery or Courier: West Building Ground Floor, Room 
W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. ET, Monday 
through Friday, except Federal holidays.
    <bullet> Instructions: You must include the agency name and docket 
number DOT-OST-2025-1359. All comments received will be posted without 
change to <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>, including any personal 
information provided. You may review the Department of Transportation's 
complete Privacy Act statement in the Federal Register published on 
April 11, 2000 (65 FR 19477-78).
    Privacy Act: Anyone is able to search the electronic form of all 
comments received in any of our dockets by the name of the individual 
submitting the comment (or signing the comment, if submitted on behalf 
of an association, business, labor union, etc.).
    Docket: For access to the docket to read background documents or 
comments received, go to <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a> or to the street 
address listed above. Follow the online instructions for accessing the 
docket.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For questions, please contact Karyn 
Gorman, Departmental Chief Privacy Officer, Privacy Office, Department 
of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590; email: <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#0f7f7d66796e6c764f6b607b21686079"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="8dfdffe4fbeceef4cde9e2f9a3eae2fb">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>; or 
202-603-8321.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Notice Updates

    This Notice includes both substantive changes and non-substantive 
changes to the previously published Notice. The substantive changes 
have been made to system name, system location, system manager, 
authority for maintenance of the system, categories of individuals 
covered by the system, categories of records in the system, purpose of 
the system, record source categories, Routine Uses maintained in the 
system, policies and practices for storing, retrieval, retention and 
disposal of the records in the system, and administrative, technical 
and physical safeguards. Non-substantive changes have been made to 
record access procedures as well as revisions to align with the 
requirements of Office of Management and Budget Memoranda (OMB) A-108 
and to ensure consistency with other Notices issued by the Department 
of Transportation.

Background

    In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, the Department of 
Transportation proposes to modify and re-issue an existing system of 
records titled ``DOT/ALL 7--Departmental Accounting and Financial 
Information System (DAFIS) and Delphi Accounting System'' and change 
the name to ``DOT/ALL 7--DOT Financial Management Records''. This 
system of records covers records collected and maintained for the 
purposes of performing transaction based financial management functions 
and mandated government reporting. The following substantive changes 
have been made to the Notice:
    1. System Name: Is updated to ``DOT/ALL 7--DOT Financial Management 
Records'' from ``DOT/ALL 7--Departmental Accounting and Financial 
Information System (DAFIS) and Delphi Accounting System'' to more 
accurately reflect the records covered under the Notice.
    2. System Location: Is updated to remove outdated references to 
Operating Administrations and specify the location of DOT's Federal 
shared service provider.
    3. System Manager: This Notice updates the system manager name and 
address. The previous address listed was U.S. DOT, 400 7th Street SW, 
Washington, DC 20590.
    4. Authority: This Notice updates the authorities to include 49 
U.S.C. 322 (DOT general powers), 31 U.S.C. 3512 (b) (agency authority 
to maintain financial management systems and internal controls), 26 
U.S.C. 6109 (Identifying numbers), 41 CFR Chapters 300-304 (Federal 
Travel Regulations) and E.O. 9397 (SSN) as amended (relating to use of 
SSNs) to expand and include relevant regulations to align with the 
collection of personally identifiable information and data in the 
system.
    5. Purpose: Is updated to clarify how the records are used in the 
system and for what purpose and to include non-DOT federal agencies on 
a fee for use basis.

[[Page 55336]]

    6. Categories of Individuals: Updated categories of individuals to 
clearly define and identify who is covered by this system of records to 
include employees, individuals engaged with business activities as 
invitational travelers, vendors, debtors, or grantees, for DOT 
Operating Administrations, and other federal agencies on a fee-for-use 
basis.
    7. Categories of Records: Updated to better describe the type of 
records maintained in the system to include individuals' contact 
information, bank account information, travel reimbursement data, 
government-issued charge cards, and sole proprietor information serving 
as an individual.
    8. Record source Categories: Updated to remove reference to the 
legacy DOT Consolidated Uniform Payroll System and replaced with 
current source categories from which individual's data is obtained.
    9. Routine Uses: Updated routine uses to include system specific 
routine uses that allows disclosing of data obtained from the General 
Services Administration (GSA) System for Award Management, and added 
disclosure for Treasury's Do Not Pay Working System to support 
Executive Order 14249, Protecting America's Bank Account Against Fraud, 
Waste, and Abuse, and align with recent requirements specified in the 
August 20, 2025 OMB Memo M-25-32, Preventing Improper Payments and 
Protecting Privacy Through Do Not Pay. This notice also modifies the 
routine uses by adding and updating the specific DOT General Routine 
Uses that apply to this system.
    10. Records Storage: Updated policies and practices for the storage 
of records to inform the public that records are no longer stored on 
magnetic tape or disks, microfiche, and paper and now are digitized and 
input records are maintained on electronic storage media.
    11. Records Retrieval: Updated the policies and practices for the 
retrieval of records to inform the public records may be retrieved by a 
unique supplier number assigned by the system and queried by Social 
Security Number (SSN), or Tax Identification Number (TIN).
    12. Retention and Disposal: Updated the policies and practices for 
the retention of records to reflect updated NARA record schedules. The 
previous NARA record schedule no longer applies to the records in the 
system.
    13. Administrative, Technical, and Physical Safeguards: Updated to 
account for the agency's transition from paper to electronic 
recordkeeping and the Information Technology measures that are in place 
to protect the records.
    The following non-substantive changes have been made to the Notice:
    14. Record Access: Updated the record access procedures to reflect 
signatures on signed requests for records must either be notarized or 
accompanied by a statement made under penalty of perjury in compliance 
with 28 U.S.C. 1746.

Privacy Act

    The Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) governs the means by which the 
Federal Government collects, maintains, and uses personally 
identifiable information (PII) in a System of Records. A ``System of 
Records'' is a group of any records under the control of a Federal 
agency from which information about individuals is retrieved by name or 
other personal identifier. The Privacy Act requires each agency to 
publish in the Federal Register a System of Records Notice (SORN) 
identifying and describing each System of Records the agency maintains, 
including the purposes for which the agency uses PII in the system, the 
routine uses for which the agency discloses such information outside 
the agency, and how individuals to whom a Privacy Act record pertains 
can exercise their rights under the Privacy Act (e.g., to determine if 
the system contains information about them and to contest inaccurate 
information). In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(r), DOT has provided a 
report of this system of records to the Office of Management and Budget 
and to Congress.
SYSTEM NAME AND NUMBER:
    Department of Transportation, DOT/ALL 7--DOT Financial Management 
Records

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION:
    Unclassified.

SYSTEM LOCATION:
    (1) Department of Transportation, DOT Accounting offices and 
selected program, policy, and budget Offices. Records may also be 
maintained in regional Departmental and Operating Administration 
locations that prepare and provide input information for controlling 
and facilitating the accounting and reporting of financial transactions 
for this system.
    (2) Federal Aviation Administration's Mike Monroney Aeronautical 
Center. Serving as a Federal shared service provider centrally 
maintaining the system software and data centers and providing 
accounting and financial management services to federal agencies.

SYSTEM MANAGER(S):
    Office of Financial Management, (B-30), Office of the Secretary, 
1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590.

AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM:
    49 U.S.C. 322, 31 U.S.C. 3512(b), 26 U.S.C. 6109, 41 CFR Chapters 
300-304 and E.O. 9397 (SSN) as amended.

PURPOSE(S) OF THE SYSTEM:
    The purpose of the system is to support financial management for 
Federal agencies by providing a standard solution for controlling and 
facilitating the accounting and reporting of financial transactions. 
Records are collected to perform transaction based financial management 
functions to include procurement payables, inventory, general ledger, 
financial reporting, budgeting, accounts payable, employee 
reimbursements, accounts receivable, purchasing, project accounting, 
payroll summary, financial statements and mandated government reporting 
for DOT and other non-DOT federal agencies on a fee-for-use basis.

CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM:
    Current and former U.S. federal employees of DOT and non-DOT 
federal agencies obtaining accounting and financial management services 
on a fee-for-service basis. Individuals engaged with business 
activities, or have previously conducted business activities, as 
invitational travelers (traveling at the agency request), vendors, 
debtors, or grantees with the DOT and non-DOT federal agencies 
obtaining accounting and financial management services on a fee-for-
service basis. Only records reflecting personal information are subject 
to the Privacy Act. The system also contains records concerning 
corporations, other business entities, and organizations whose records 
are not subject to the Privacy Act.

CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM:
    Individual's Name, Social Security Number (SSN), Tax Identification 
Number (TIN), home and/or business address, personal and/or business 
telephone number, personal and/or business email address, personal and/
or business bank account information, government-issued charge card 
information, and financial transactions related to the DOT and non-DOT 
federal agencies obtaining accounting and financial management services 
on a fee-for-service basis.

RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES:
    Individuals, contractors, vendors to include sole proprietors, 
grantees, other

[[Page 55337]]

government agencies, documents submitted to or received from specific 
offices maintaining the records in the performance of their duties. 
Records are collected from Department of Interior's Federal Personnel 
Payment System (FPPS) for employee data required to support employee 
reimbursements, from GSA's System of Award Management (SAM) to obtain 
grantee and vendor data for financial transactions, and from the GSA's 
Smart Pay Vendor travel application for traveler data to support travel 
reimbursements.

ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES 
OF USERS AND PURPOSES OF SUCH USES:
    In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 
552a(b) of the Privacy Act, all or a portion of the records or 
information contained in this system may be disclosed outside DOT as a 
routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows:
    System Specific Uses:
    1. Records may be disclosed in this system as a routine use to 
federal agencies or organizations for fiscal operations related to 
employee reimbursements and to facilitate the distribution of labor 
charges for cost accounting purposes.
    2. Information in this system from GSA's SAM may be disclosed as a 
routine use for the purpose of processing payments to vendors and 
grantees doing business with DOT and non-DOT federal agencies using 
DOT's financial and accounting system.
    3. To the U.S. Department of the Treasury when disclosure of the 
information is relevant to review payment and award eligibility through 
the Do Not Pay Working System for the purposes of identifying, 
preventing, or recouping improper payments to an applicant for, or 
recipient of, Federal funds, including funds disbursed by a state 
(meaning a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, a 
territory or possession of the United States, or a federally recognized 
Indian tribe) in a state-administered, federally funded program.
    Departmental General Routine Uses:
    4. In the event that a system of records maintained by DOT to carry 
out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, 
whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by 
general statute or particular program pursuant thereto, the relevant 
records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to 
the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local or foreign, 
charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such 
violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or 
rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto.
    5. A record from this system of records may be disclosed, as a 
routine use, to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, 
criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent 
information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain 
information relevant to a DOT decision concerning the hiring or 
retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the 
letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other 
benefit.
    6. A record from this system of records may be disclosed, as a 
routine use, to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in 
connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of 
a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, 
the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or 
other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the 
information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's 
decision on the matter.
    7a. Routine Use for Disclosure for Use in Litigation. It shall be a 
routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them 
to the Department of Justice or other Federal agency conducting 
litigation when--
    (a) DOT, or any agency thereof, or
    (b) Any employee of DOT or any agency thereof, in his/her official 
capacity, or
    (c) Any employee of DOT or any agency thereof, in his/her 
individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to 
represent the employee, or
    (d) The United States or any agency thereof, where DOT determines 
that litigation is likely to affect the United States, is a party to 
litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such 
records by the Department of Justice or other Federal agency conducting 
the litigation is deemed by DOT to be relevant and necessary in the 
litigation, provided, however, that in each case, DOT determines that 
disclosure of the records in the litigation is a use of the information 
contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which 
the records were collected.
    7b. Routine Use for Agency Disclosure in Other Proceedings. It 
shall be a routine use of records in this system to disclose them in 
proceedings before any court or adjudicative or administrative body 
before which DOT or any agency thereof, appears, when--
    (a) DOT, or any agency thereof, or
    (b) Any employee of DOT or any agency thereof in his/her official 
capacity, or
    (c) Any employee of DOT or any agency in his/her individual 
capacity where DOT has agreed to represent the employee, or
    (d) The United States or any agency thereof, where DOT determines 
that the proceeding is likely to affect the United States, is a party 
to the proceeding or has an interest in such proceeding, and DOT 
determines that use of such records is relevant and necessary in the 
proceeding, provided, however, that in each case, DOT determines that 
disclosure of the records in the proceeding is a use of the information 
contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which 
the records were collected.
    8. The information contained in this system of records will be 
disclosed to the Office of Management and Budget, OMB, in connection 
with the review of private relief legislation as set forth in OMB 
Circular No. A-19 at any stage of the legislative coordination and 
clearance process as set forth in that Circular.
    9. Disclosure may be made to a Congressional office from the record 
of an individual in response to an inquiry from the Congressional 
office made at the request of that individual. In such cases, however, 
the Congressional office does not have greater rights to records than 
the individual. Thus, the disclosure may be withheld from delivery to 
the individual where the file contains investigative or actual 
information or other materials which are being used, or are expected to 
be used, to support prosecution or fines against the individual for 
violations of a statute, or of regulations of the Department based on 
statutory authority. No such limitations apply to records requested for 
Congressional oversight or legislative purposes; release is authorized 
under 49 CFR 10.35(9).
    10. One or more records from a system of records may be disclosed 
routinely to the National Archives and Records Administration in 
records management inspections being conducted under the authority of 
44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906.
    11. DOT may make available to another agency or instrumentality of 
any government jurisdiction, including State and local governments, 
listings of names from any system of records in DOT for use in law 
enforcement activities, either civil or criminal, or to expose 
fraudulent claims, regardless of the stated purpose for the collection 
of the information in the system of records. These enforcement 
activities are generally

[[Page 55338]]

referred to as matching programs because two lists of names are checked 
for match using automated assistance. This routine use is advisory in 
nature and does not offer unrestricted access to systems of records for 
such law enforcement and related antifraud activities. Each request 
will be considered on the basis of its purpose, merits, cost 
effectiveness and alternatives using Instructions on reporting computer 
matching programs to the Office of Management and Budget, OMB, 
Congress, and the public, published by the Director, OMB, dated 
September 20, 1989.
    12. It shall be a routine use of the information in any DOT system 
of records to provide to the Attorney General of the United States, or 
his/her designee, information indicating that a person meets any of the 
disqualifications for receipt, possession, shipment, or transport of a 
firearm under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. In case of a 
dispute concerning the validity of the information provided by DOT to 
the Attorney General, or his/her designee, it shall be a routine use of 
the information in any DOT system of records to make any disclosures of 
such information to the National Background Information Check System, 
established by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, as may be 
necessary to resolve such dispute.
    13a. To appropriate agencies, entities, and persons when (1) DOT 
suspects or has confirmed that there has been a breach of the system of 
records; (2) DOT has determined that as a result of the suspected or 
confirmed breach there is a risk of harm to individuals, DOT (including 
its information systems, programs, and operations), the Federal (3) the 
disclosure made to such agencies, entities, and persons is reasonably 
necessary to assist in connection with DOT's efforts to respond to the 
suspected or confirmed breach or to prevent, minimize, or remedy such 
harm.
    13b. To another Federal agency or Federal entity, when DOT 
determines that information from this system of records is reasonably 
necessary to assist the recipient agency or entity in (1) responding to 
a suspected or confirmed breach or (2) preventing, minimizing, or 
remedying the risk of harm to individuals, the recipient agency or 
entity (including its information systems, programs, and operations), 
the Federal Government, or national security, resulting from a 
suspected or confirmed breach.
    14. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, to 
the Office of Government Information Services for the purpose of (a) 
resolving disputes between FOIA requesters and Federal agencies and (b) 
reviewing agencies' policies, procedures, and compliance in order to 
recommend policy changes to Congress and the President.
    15. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, to 
contractors and their agents, experts, consultants, and others 
performing or working on a contract, service, cooperative agreement, or 
other assignment for DOT, when necessary to accomplish an agency 
function related to this system of records.
    16. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, to 
an agency, organization, or individual for the purpose of performing 
audit or oversight operations related to this system of records, but 
only such records as are necessary and relevant to the audit or 
oversight activity. This routine use does not apply to intra-agency 
sharing authorized under Section (b)(1) of the Privacy Act.
    17. DOT may disclose from this system, as a routine use, records 
consisting of, or relating to, terrorism information (6 U.S.C. 
485(a)(5)), homeland security information (6 U.S.C. 482(f)(1)), or Law 
enforcement information (Guideline 2 Report attached to White House 
Memorandum, ``Information Sharing Environment, November 22, 2006) to a 
Federal, State, local, tribal, territorial, foreign government and/or 
multinational agency, either in response to its request or upon the 
initiative of the Component, for purposes of sharing such information 
as is necessary and relevant for the agencies to detect, prevent, 
disrupt, preempt, and mitigate the effects of terrorist activities 
against the territory, people, and interests of the United States of 
America, as contemplated by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004 (Pub. L. 108-458) and Executive Order 13388 
(October 25, 2005).

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORAGE OF RECORDS:
    Records are stored on electronic storage media in accordance with 
the safeguards below.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
    Records are retrieved by a unique supplier number assigned by the 
system for both individuals and vendors; records can be queried by 
name, SSN, or TIN.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETENTION AND DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:
    Records in the system are maintained in accordance with NARA 
records schedule and retention: GRS 1.1: Financial Management and 
Reporting Records, Item 10, DAA-GRS-2013-0003-0001; Financial 
transaction records related to procuring goods and services, paying 
bills, collecting debts, and accounting is the only that applies. 
Temporary. Destroy 6 years after final payment or cancellation, but 
longer dependent on business need.

ADMINISTRATIVE, TECHNICAL, AND PHYSICAL SAFEGUARDS:
    Administrative Procedures: Access to the records is limited to 
person(s) responsible for servicing the records in performance of their 
official duties, who are properly screened, trained on policies and 
procedures, and cleared for need to-know. Personnel who access the 
system and its data must take security awareness training and sign a 
Rules of Behavior initially (prior to access) and, at least, annually 
thereafter. Technical: Regular monitoring of users and the system are 
implemented to ensure only authorized personnel have access to 
information in the system. Strict controls are in place to minimize the 
compromise of stored or accessed in the system. Physical: The system 
and the data are housed in secure data center.

RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES:
    Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in 
this system should address inquiries to the System Manager at the 
address identified in ``System Manager and Address'' above. Request 
must be in writing, include SORN ID and name of this system of records 
notice, information on the Operating Administration-Department, 
specific date range and specific type of records seeking. Request must 
be signed by the requester, must be notarized as required by 28 U.S.C. 
1746 in the following format: If executed without the United States: 
``I declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury 
under the laws of the United States of America that the foregoing is 
true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature)''. If executed within 
the United States, its territories, possessions, or commonwealths: ``I 
declare (or certify, verify, or state) under penalty of perjury that 
the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on (date). (Signature)''.

CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES:
    See ``Record Access Procedures'' above.

[[Page 55339]]

NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
    See ``Record Access Procedures'' above.

EXEMPTIONS PROMULGATED FOR THE SYSTEM:
    None.

HISTORY:
    A full notice of this system of records, Departmental Accounting 
and Financial Information System (DAFIS) and Delphi Accounting System, 
was published in the Federal Register on April 11, 2000 (65 FR 19481).

    Issued in Washington, DC.
Karyn Gorman,
Chief Privacy Officer.
[FR Doc. 2025-21745 Filed 12-1-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4910-9X-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>