<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 226 (Wednesday, November 26, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 226 (Wednesday, November 26, 2025)]
[Proposed Rules]
[Pages 54266-54281]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-21324]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

47 CFR Part 51

[WC Docket Nos. 25-304, 25-208, 17-97; FCC 25-73; FR ID 319327]


Advancing IP Interconnection

AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission.

ACTION: Proposed rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In this document, the Federal Communications Commission 
(Commission) adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to 
eliminate burdensome legacy interconnection regulations that may 
prevent providers of modern, internet Protocol (IP)-based networks from 
interconnecting efficiently, and also seeks comment on ways the 
Commission can facilitate a successful transition to all-IP 
interconnection for voice services while retaining critical oversight 
in areas of public safety and consumer protection, and ensuring 
competition. The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposes to forbear from 
incumbent local exchange carrier (LEC)-specific interconnection and 
related obligations, and to eliminate the Commission's rules 
implementing those provisions by December 31, 2028. The Commission also 
seeks comment on whether and to what extent eliminating

[[Page 54267]]

the incumbent LEC-specific interconnection regulatory framework may 
affect other statutory frameworks or Commission rules, and whether the 
Commission should revisit any other provisions or rules that are 
rendered redundant by the elimination of incumbent LECs' 
interconnection obligations. Finally, the Commission seeks comment on 
what, if any, regulatory framework for IP interconnection should 
replace the current interconnection framework under section 251(c)(2), 
and on the scope of the Commission's authority to regulate IP 
interconnection under any such framework.

DATES: Comments are due on or before December 26, 2025; reply comments 
are due on or before January 26, 2026. Written comments on the 
Paperwork Reduction Act proposed information collection requirements 
must be submitted by the public, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), 
and other interested parties on or before January 26, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Pursuant to Sec. Sec.  1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's 
rules, 47 CFR 1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments and 
reply comments. Comments may be filed using the Commission's Electronic 
Comment Filing System (ECFS). You may submit comments, identified by WC 
Docket Nos. 25-304, 25-208, and 17-97, by the following methods:
    <bullet> Electronic Filers: Comments may be filed electronically 
using the internet by accessing the ECFS: <a href="https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs">https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs</a>.
    <bullet> Paper Filers: Parties who choose to file by paper must 
file an original and one copy of each filing.
    <bullet> Filings can be sent by hand or messenger delivery, by 
commercial courier, or by the U.S. Postal Service. All filings must be 
addressed to the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission.
    <bullet> Hand-delivered or messenger-delivered paper filings for 
the Commission's Secretary are accepted between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 
by the FCC's mailing contractor at 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis 
Junction, MD 20701. All hand deliveries must be held together with 
rubber bands or fasteners. Any envelopes and boxes must be disposed of 
before entering the building.
    <bullet> Commercial courier deliveries (any deliveries not by the 
U.S. Postal Service) must be sent to 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis 
Junction, MD 20701. Filings sent by U.S. Postal Service First-Class 
Mail, Priority Mail, and Priority Mail Express must be sent to 45 L 
Street NE, Washington, DC 20554.
    <bullet> People with Disabilities. To request materials in 
accessible formats for people with disabilities (braille, large print, 
electronic files, audio format), send an email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#5b3d38386e6b6f1b3d3838753c342d"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="5a3c39396f6a6e1a3c3939743d352c">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or 
call the Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau at 202-418-0530.

In addition to filing comments with the Secretary, a copy of any 
comments on the Paperwork Reduction Act proposed information collection 
requirements contained herein should be submitted to the Federal 
Communications Commission via email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#1d4d4f5c5d7b7e7e337a726b"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="3a6a687b7a5c5959145d554c">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> and to Nicole 
Ongele, FCC, via email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#cf81a6aca0a3aae180a1a8aaa3aa8fa9acace1a8a0b9"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="aee0c7cdc1c2cb80e1c0c9cbc2cbeec8cdcd80c9c1d8">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information about this 
proceeding, please contact Jesse Goodwin, Competition Policy Division, 
Wireline Competition Bureau, at (202) 418-0958, or 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#1476717a7e75797d7a3a737b7b70637d7a547277773a737b62"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="690b0c070308040007470e06060d1e0007290f0a0a470e061f">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>, or Erik Beith, Competition Policy Division, 
Wireline Competition Bureau, at <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#f693849f9dd894939f829eb6909595d8919980"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="9efbecf7f5b0fcfbf7eaf6def8fdfdb0f9f1e8">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>, or (202) 418-0756. 
For additional information concerning the Paperwork Reduction Act 
proposed information collection requirements contained in this 
document, send an email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#3b6b697a7b5d5858155c544d"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="3e6e6c7f7e585d5d10595148">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or contact Nicole Ongele at 
(202) 418-2991.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) in WC Docket Nos. 25-304, 25-208, 17-97; 
FCC 25-73, adopted on October 28, 2025, and released on October 29, 
2025. The full text of this document is available for public inspection 
at the following internet address: <a href="https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-25-73A1.pdf">https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-25-73A1.pdf</a>.
    Paperwork Reduction Act: This document may contain proposed new or 
revised information collection requirements. The Commission, as part of 
its continuing effort to reduce paperwork burdens, invites the general 
public and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to comment on the 
information collection requirements contained in this document, as 
required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, Public Law 104-13. In 
addition, pursuant to the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, 
Public Law 107-198, see 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(4), we seek specific comment 
on how we might further reduce the information collection burden for 
small business concerns with fewer than 25 employees.
    Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act: Consistent with 
the Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act, a summary of the 
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is available at <a href="https://www.fcc.gov/proposed-rulemakings">https://www.fcc.gov/proposed-rulemakings</a>. To request materials in accessible formats for 
people with disabilities (e.g. Braille, large print, electronic files, 
audio format), send an email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#ddbbbebee8ede99dbbbebef3bab2ab"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="7f191c1c4a4f4b3f191c1c51181009">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or call the Consumer & 
Governmental Affairs Bureau at (202) 418-0530.
    Ex Parte Rules: The proceeding this document initiates shall be 
treated as a ``permit-but-disclose'' proceeding in accordance with the 
Commission's ex parte rules. Persons making ex parte presentations must 
file a copy of any written presentation or a memorandum summarizing any 
oral presentation within two business days after the presentation 
(unless a different deadline applicable to the Sunshine period 
applies). Persons making oral ex parte presentations are reminded that 
memoranda summarizing the presentation must (1) list all persons 
attending or otherwise participating in the meeting at which the ex 
parte presentation was made, and (2) summarize all data presented and 
arguments made during the presentation. If the presentation consisted 
in whole or in part of the presentation of data or arguments already 
reflected in the presenter's written comments, memoranda or other 
filings in the proceeding, the presenter may provide citations to such 
data or arguments in his or her prior comments, memoranda, or other 
filings (specifying the relevant page and/or paragraph numbers where 
such data or arguments can be found) in lieu of summarizing them in the 
memorandum. Documents shown or given to Commission staff during ex 
parte meetings are deemed to be written ex parte presentations and must 
be filed consistent with rule 1.1206(b). In proceedings governed by 
rule 1.49(f) or for which the Commission has made available a method of 
electronic filing, written ex parte presentations and memoranda 
summarizing oral ex parte presentations, and all attachments thereto, 
must be filed through the electronic comment filing system available 
for that proceeding, and must be filed in their native format (e.g., 
.doc, .xml, .ppt, searchable .pdf). Participants in this proceeding 
should familiarize themselves with the Commission's ex parte rules.
    Regulatory Flexibility Act. The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 
as amended (RFA), requires that an agency prepare a regulatory 
flexibility analysis for notice-and-comment rulemaking proceedings, 
unless the agency certifies that ``the rule will not, if promulgated, 
have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small 
entities.'' Accordingly, the Commission has

[[Page 54268]]

prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) concerning 
potential rule and policy changes contained in this NPRM. The IRFA is 
set forth below. The Commission invites the general public, in 
particular small businesses, to comment on the IRFA. Comments must be 
filed by the deadlines for comments on the NPRM indicated on the first 
page of this document and must have a separate and distinct heading 
designating them as responses to the IRFA.

Synopsis

I. Discussion

A. Current State of Interconnection

1. Current Arrangements for TDM Interconnection for Voice Services
    We seek comment on the (time-division multiplexing) TDM-based 
interconnection arrangements that remain in place today for all types 
of providers. What types of carriers continue to require or employ TDM-
based interconnection--for example, large incumbent LECs, small or 
rural incumbent LECs, competitive LECs, or access tandem operators--and 
for what services? To what extent are IP-based providers today required 
to interconnect with incumbent LECs in TDM, even when traffic 
originates and/or terminates in IP? Are calls still aggregated at TDM 
access tandems or central offices for routing and transit? Are tandems 
necessary for routing, or are they an artifact of existing routing 
arrangements that rely on databases such as the Local Exchange Routing 
Guide (LERG)? How do carriers exchange TDM traffic today, and do any 
alternate (non-tandem) interconnection arrangements exist? We ask 
commenters to describe the typical TDM network topology in use (e.g., 
local switches, tandems, SS7 signaling points, 911 selective routers), 
including any legacy functions that depend on TDM interconnection and 
the classes of providers and categories of service recipients that rely 
on those arrangements.
    1. How do interconnection arrangements between LECs for local 
traffic differ from arrangements between incumbent LECs and 
interexchange carriers for long-distance traffic? How do 
interconnection agreements between other types of providers work, and 
how do they differ from those governed by section 251(c)? For example, 
how do competitive LECs interconnect with other competitive LECs? How 
do competitive LECs interconnect with mobile carriers? How do 
competitive LECs interconnect with rural telephone companies? How do 
mobile carriers interconnect with each other or with rural telephone 
companies? How do interexchange carriers interconnect with mobile 
carriers or rural telephone companies? Are there subgroups of carriers 
that should be examined differently? For example, are there some 
competitive LECs that function as interconnection points, similar to 
the tandems of incumbent LECs, and are their interconnection 
arrangements different from competitive LECs that serve a local market? 
Recognizing that incumbent LEC switched access lines encompass only 
3.1% of the voice telephony market, we seek further comment how often 
interconnection arrangements are actually facilitating the origination 
or termination of traffic on the legacy public switched telephone 
network and how often section 251(c)(2) interconnection arrangements 
are leveraged for the transit of calls to other networks.
    We also seek comment on where TDM interconnection actually occurs. 
Currently, under section 251(c)(2)(B), an incumbent LEC must allow a 
requesting telecommunications carrier to interconnect at any 
technically feasible point. The Commission has interpreted this 
provision to mean that competitive LECs have the discretion to 
interconnect at multiple points or just at a single point of 
interconnection (POI) in a given local access and transport area 
(LATA). We seek comment on where these TDM POIs are located within the 
network, and how are they geographically distributed. How many TDM POIs 
are still in use, and how concentrated are these POIs among networks? 
Do different categories of providers tend to use different types of 
POIs? For instance, do large incumbent LECs primarily interconnect at 
their tandems, while smaller competitive and rural LECs rely on third-
party tandem hubs or other arrangements? We invite commenters to detail 
how many POIs exist in a given region and how they are used. For 
example, how many TDM tandems are active, how many end offices 
interconnect directly, and to what extent are carrier hotels and other 
centralized POIs used? Finally, are most, if not all, TDM POIs resident 
in facilities that do not have SIP POIs? And if so, does this place a 
burden for providers in transitioning to an all-IP SIP interconnection 
point with one or more providers?
    What are the operational or financial impacts of TDM 
interconnection arrangements on competitive carriers, particularly 
rural and small LECs, and those that have already transitioned to all-
IP networks? We note concerns that ending incumbent LECs' section 
251(c)(2) interconnection obligations could shift new cost among 
carriers. We therefore seek comment regarding current TDM 
interconnection practices of small and rural carriers. Do rural 
telephone companies currently avail themselves of section 251(c)(2)? 
What interconnection costs do these providers face under existing 
rules? Are there potential system-wide efficiencies and cost savings 
from an all-IP network? Are any small and rural carriers now required 
to interconnect at an IP POI, and if so, under what cost arrangements? 
What interconnection arrangements do carriers subject to the rural 
exemption under section 251(f)(1) or (f)(2) have for TDM or IP voice 
services? Given that such carriers, despite being incumbent LECs, are 
largely exempt from section 251(c)(2), how do those arrangements with 
competitive LECs differ from other such interconnection arrangements?
    We also seek comment on the architecture of hybrid connections 
between IP networks and legacy TDM networks, and on the effect of such 
network arrangements on interconnection agreements. In a typical 
scenario, an IP-originated call is handed off to a TDM network, or vice 
versa, requiring media and signaling gateways at the IP-TDM boundary to 
handle protocol conversions. How often are calls that originate or 
terminate on the PSTN converted to VoIP for transport and 
interconnection, and vice versa? Where in the network is the IP-to-TDM 
or TDM-to-IP conversion occurring? Which providers deploy VoIP-to-TDM 
and TDM-to-VoIP gateways when calls are exchanged between networks, 
which providers are responsible for the protocol conversions, and where 
are these gateways located? What carriers own and operate those 
gateways, including emergency services gateways that connect to 
selective routers, and signaling links? How is traffic routed through 
the TDM portion (e.g., via which tandem switches or trunks), and who 
bears the costs of these conversions and transport? Do certain 
incumbent LECs offer interconnection in both TDM and IP, and if so, at 
what frequency?
    We seek comment on the volume of voice traffic still transiting 
legacy TDM networks. We ask commenters to quantify the remaining TDM 
usage that providers carry or expect to carry in the near term. For 
example, what percentage of calls or trunks in providers' networks 
remain on TDM switches? What service categories (e.g., legacy telephone 
lines, business T-1/PRI, alarm and elevator lines, 911 services) are 
still provisioned via TDM,

[[Page 54269]]

and why have they not yet transitioned to modern alternatives? (``T-1'' 
refers to a physical transmission line standard in North America for 
digital voice and data services. ``PRI,'' or ``Primary Rate 
Interface,'' refers to a high capacity digital voice and data service 
delivered over a T-1 line.) To what extent do carriers still offer 
stand-alone local exchange and/or long-distance service? How relevant 
is the distinction between local exchange and long-distance service to 
today's consumers? How often do voice service customers choose a long-
distance carrier that is unaffiliated with their local exchange 
carrier? We ask that commenters provide any data or studies on TDM 
traffic volumes by category, if possible.
    We seek comment on the technical, financial, and regulatory factors 
that account for the persistence of TDM architectures in our nation's 
networks. Are there statutory or public safety-related mandates that 
have effectively required maintaining circuit-switched networks? To 
what extent do state-level regulatory requirements compel certain 
carriers to maintain legacy TDM infrastructure or continue offering 
TDM-based service? To what extent do the costs associated with 
upgrading networks to IP account for providers' continued reliance on 
TDM interconnection arrangements? To what extent do certain providers 
operate IP networks for their own services but rely on TDM solely for 
interconnection? We seek comment on the contexts and services for which 
carriers, utilities, and government agencies assert TDM must be 
maintained alongside IP to prevent disruption to critical services. 
Despite significant industry progress in transitioning to all-IP 
networks, some observers have previously noted that certain critical 
services still depended on existing TDM infrastructure to function, and 
that complex issues related to these services must be addressed before 
the IP transition can be completed. For example, the Department of 
Transportation has emphasized that the Federal Aviation 
Administration's Telecommunications Infrastructure (FTI) network ``is 
heavily dependent on obsolete 1960s TDM technology across over 30,000 
services at 4,600 sites.'' To what extent do infrastructure or 
emergency services currently continue to rely on TDM circuits for 
critical applications like aviation communications, railway operations, 
industrial process control, infrastructure monitoring, rural call 
completion, public safety radio backhaul, or selective routing for 
legacy 911 networks? Are there other known over-the-top services, such 
as medical monitors, security alarms, or point of sale terminals, that 
still use and/or require TDM facilities? Are there commercially 
available alternatives that could be used, should TDM interconnection 
become unavailable? We ask that commenters provide detailed examples of 
such TDM-reliant services, as well as traffic volume estimates, to the 
extent possible. Are there technical, financial, security, or other 
practical reasons to maintain certain technologies, in an all-IP world? 
What specific portion(s) of the network must be TDM to accommodate TDM-
reliant services?
2. Current Arrangements for IP Interconnection for Voice Services
    We seek comment on current carrier practices and arrangements for 
IP-to-IP interconnection for voice services. Today's IP-based voice 
networks often use managed IP cores and session border controllers 
(SBCs) to carry VoIP calls end-to-end. When an IP-initiated call must 
transit a TDM network, the VoIP call is handed off via a media gateway 
to TDM at the network edge. We seek comment on the current network 
architecture underlying IP interconnection for interconnected VoIP 
services--how has it evolved since the Commission first took action to 
promote IP-to-IP interconnection for voice services? In referring to 
``interconnected VoIP service,'' we include those services elsewhere 
deemed ``IP-enabled voice service.'' For example, do carriers exchange 
traffic via Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) trunks, public internet 
gateways, or private IP networks? How often do carriers use IP-to-IP 
peering to interconnect directly in IP versus indirectly via IP 
``tandems'' or intermediate providers? How are commercial arrangements 
for direct IP voice interconnection structured? Do carriers need to 
individually negotiate each direct connection agreement? What are the 
costs associated with interconnecting directly over IP compared to 
exchanging voice traffic over existing internet connections? What 
protocols and quality-of-service (QoS) mechanisms ensure voice quality?
    Some stakeholders have previously noted that voice traffic can be 
routed and exchanged over the public internet--is the ``best efforts'' 
QoS model sufficient to preserve existing voice quality? What 
mechanisms, protocols, or redundancies are available or in place to 
prevent voice service disruption when there are network outages or 
unusual strain on a network's capacity, such as during a natural 
disaster? How does call routing work when voice traffic is exchanged 
over the public internet? How are IP addresses and routing handled at 
IP POIs? Is the Domain Name Service (DNS) used within or between 
providers in support of SIP? Or, are IP addresses manually set for 
static routes between points set by a provider? Are there concerns 
about hijacking of IP address prefixes used for border gateway protocol 
(BGP) routing? We seek comment on any QoS, latency, or interoperability 
issues that have arisen in current IP voice interconnection. Are there 
technical barriers to IP interconnection that the Commission should 
address and what types of providers are impacted? Commenters should 
describe in detail the network layers and equipment used in VoIP 
interconnection today.
    We also seek comment on how interconnection practices vary by size, 
type of provider, and network technology. For example, are small or 
rural incumbent LECs offering direct IP interconnection at the same 
frequency as larger incumbent LECs? What percentage of rural carriers 
have deployed IP facilities and services in their networks, and are 
they currently providing, or capable of providing, VoIP services? Have 
competitive LECs and cable operators generally adopted IP-to-IP 
interconnection, and if so, what models do they use? How do wireless 
carriers interconnect for Voice over LTE (VoLTE) traffic, and do they 
require special gateways? Do VoIP providers interconnect directly, or 
do they rely on their carrier partners? Do large incumbent LECs and 
rural incumbent LECs also currently offer IP interconnection? What 
types of providers currently have direct IP interconnection agreements, 
and how do these agreements account for different network architectures 
and regulatory status? For cases involving intermediaries, such as 
third-party IP tandems or transit providers, what role do these 
intermediaries play, and how widely are such services used?
    We also seek comment on the types and number of IP interconnection 
agreements for interconnected VoIP service that exist today, and how 
parties to those agreements treat technical and financial issues. For 
example, in past proceedings, some parties have noted that carriers 
historically have relied primarily on the LERG and local number 
portability database (Number Portability Administration Center--NPAC) 
to route calls, but these databases cannot identify SIP endpoints. 
Additionally, other parties have previously noted that the preference 
to route calls to the VoIP provider's competitive LEC partner via PSTN

[[Page 54270]]

trunks, rather than to the VoIP provider directly, has hampered the 
implementation of VoIP interconnection. Are these issues still relevant 
in the context of current IP interconnection arrangements, and if so, 
how have parties responded to these challenges? How do providers 
allocate the cost burdens of exchanging IP traffic? How do 
interconnection arrangements accommodate features like number 
portability, caller ID authentication, and emergency calling (911)? Are 
there regulatory burdens or other transaction costs that have stymied 
the growth of such arrangements in the voice market? We recognize that 
IP interconnection implicates certain regulatory issues stemming 
directly from the legacy TDM framework, including intercarrier 
compensation, access charges, and universal service. While this item is 
focused on the technological and regulatory frameworks for 
interconnection the Commission will address other issues as appropriate 
in separate items. Are carriers negotiating new IP interconnection 
contracts, or modifying existing TDM agreements? How do state 
requirements regarding TDM interconnection affect the negotiation and 
implementation of IP interconnection agreements? Are there other 
factors affecting negotiations that the Commission has not considered? 
What lessons can be drawn from providers or states that have made 
substantial progress toward IP-only infrastructure?
    In a legacy TDM world, carriers tend to interconnect at many local 
central offices and tandems. By contrast, IP networks can span larger 
regions and aggregate traffic at fewer POIs, such as carrier hotels and 
internet exchanges. We seek comment on where interconnection for 
interconnected VoIP traffic is happening today and between which types 
of carriers. One industry report notes that national carriers have 
negotiated traffic exchange at a small number of POIs, such as carrier 
hotels, rather than on a per-LATA basis. Is this the current trend, and 
if so, why? How do parties negotiate the POIs? Do the location and use 
of POIs vary with the size and type of provider or modality (e.g., 
wireline or wireless)? At how many physical POIs do VoIP providers 
currently exchange traffic with other voice providers and where are 
these POIs located? Are IP voice POIs co-located with TDM POIs, or are 
they separate? Are there regional interconnection hubs or multiple 
local interconnects per area? To what extent are carriers exchanging 
traffic over the public internet, and where are the POIs located in 
such arrangements? We ask that comments provide data or estimates on 
the number and location of current IP POIs.
    We also seek comment, specifically, on the effect of recent 
Commission efforts to facilitate the NG911 transition on current IP 
interconnection arrangements and the role of TDM architecture during 
the NG911 transition. In the 2024 NG911 Order, the Commission adopted 
rules requiring originating service providers (OSPs) to take steps to 
transition from legacy analog 911 technology to the IP-based NG911 
system. Pursuant thereto, OSPs, upon a ``valid request'' for delivery 
of 911 traffic in IP-based format by a 911 Authority, must follow a 
two-phase process for transitioning to NG911. In jurisdictions that 
have submitted valid requests under the Commission's NG911 transition 
framework, would NG911 Delivery Points for the delivery of 911 traffic 
in an IP format to ESInet or other NG911 network facilities play a role 
in facilitating the IP transition? Has the ongoing transition to NG911 
impacted providers' existing interconnection arrangements, and if so, 
how? How do IP interconnection agreements for interconnected VoIP 
account for providers' obligations to implement NG911? To what extent 
does deployment of NG911 promote IP interconnection arrangements? Do 
any providers rely on existing TDM interconnection to prevent 
disruption to emergency communications pending completion of the NG911 
transition, and what alternative arrangements can be used in these 
situations? Commenters should address the interplay between any 
continuing TDM needs for jurisdictions that have not begun or completed 
the transition to NG911 and interconnection agreements. In what other 
ways has the NG911 transition affected IP interconnection arrangements 
for voice service? Commenters should explain in detail the interplay 
between the NG911 transition and the current state of IP 
interconnection for interconnected VoIP.

B. Eliminating Interconnection Obligations Under Section 251(c)(2)

1. Effects of Burdensome Interconnection Obligations on the Transition 
to an All-IP Network
    We invite comment on the costs to incumbent LECs of complying with 
sections 251(c)(2) and (c)(6) of the Act and our rules implementing 
those provisions, sections 51.305, 51.321, and 51.323, and their impact 
on the IP transition. We observe that the additional interconnection 
obligations imposed under section 251(c) of the Act can create heavy 
burdens for incumbent LECs. These costs can in turn divert resources 
away from investments in high-speed communications infrastructure, 
slowing the transition to all-IP networks. Consequently, we seek 
comment on these observations and on whether forbearance from these 
additional requirements will speed the move away from TDM-based 
technologies.
    What kinds of expenses--capital, operating, or otherwise--do the 
additional interconnection mandates found in section 251(c) of the Act 
impose? On whom, and to what extent? Does the asymmetry in regulatory 
duties between competing carriers and incumbent LECs encourage 
investments in outmoded TDM technologies? For example, Digital Progress 
Institute contends that section 251(c)'s requirements necessitate that 
incumbent LECs design and maintain outdated TDM facilities, facilities 
in which they claim competing carriers invest further to gain a 
regulatory advantage. At the same time, CCA argues that smaller 
carriers' dependency on incumbent LECs to route their calls stymies IP 
network investments because smaller carriers must ``subtend[] 
[incumbent LECs'] non-IP tandem facilities.'' We seek comment on what 
burdens carriers, particularly small and rural carriers, face as a 
result of section 251(c)'s requirements. For example, what costs must 
carriers bear in converting IP voice traffic to TDM? From TDM to IP? 
What costs must competing carriers bear in having to interconnect in 
TDM? How should the Commission evaluate competing costs among different 
categories of providers? Do these costs for carriers impede the IP 
transition? How would carriers otherwise allocate resources associated 
with section 251(c)'s additional interconnection obligations for 
incumbent LECs? To the extent that resources would be otherwise 
allocated towards speeding up a carrier's IP transition, how much more 
quickly could a move to all-IP networks occur? Do these requirements 
inhibit certain types of commercial agreements that could benefit 
consumers? Would a determination that interconnection for the exchange 
of VoIP traffic is not subject to the requirements of section 251(c) 
facilitate the negotiation of VoIP interconnection agreements? Finally, 
what kinds of state and local laws and regulations exist for 
interconnection, and what kinds of costs do they impose?

[[Page 54271]]

2. Forbearance From Incumbent LECs' Additional Interconnection and 
Related Obligations
    We propose to forbear, as of the adopted sunset date, from section 
251(c)(2) of the Act, forbear from section 251(c)(6) of the Act to the 
extent it requires incumbent LECs to provide for physical collocation 
of interconnection equipment, and eliminate our rules implementing 
those statutory provisions (47 CFR 51.305 (interconnection); 47 CFR 
51.321 (methods for obtaining interconnection and access to unbundled 
elements); 47 CFR 51.323 (standards for physical collocation and 
virtual collocation)). Below, we seek comment on whether the 
forbearance criteria outlined in section 10 of the Act have been met. 
Additionally, we seek comment on the extent to which we should forbear 
from section 251(c) of the Act, how the Commission should potentially 
modify its rules, and what steps could be taken to mitigate any 
potential harm to critical infrastructure services and consumers that 
may result from forbearance.
    Section 10 of the Act requires the Commission to forbear from 
applying any requirement of the Act or of our regulations to a 
telecommunications carrier or telecommunications service, or class of 
telecommunications carriers or telecommunications services, if the 
Commission determines that: (1) enforcement of the requirement ``is not 
necessary to ensure that the charges, practices, classifications, or 
regulations by, for, or in connection with that telecommunications 
carrier or telecommunications service are just and reasonable and are 
not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory''; (2) enforcement of that 
requirement ``is not necessary for the protection of consumers''; and 
(3) ``forbearance from applying such provision or regulation is 
consistent with the public interest.'' Satisfaction of all three 
criteria mandates forbearance. With respect to the third prong, the 
Commission must consider ``whether forbearance from enforcing the 
provision or regulation will promote competitive market conditions.''
    Ensuring practices are just and reasonable (section 10(a)(1)). Were 
we to forbear from section 251(c)(2) and section 251(c)(6) (to the 
extent it requires incumbent LECs to provide for physical collocation 
of interconnection equipment) and eliminate the Commission's 
implementing rules, incumbent LECs would no longer be subject to 
additional interconnection requirements not imposed on other kinds of 
carriers. We believe that these requirements are no longer necessary to 
ensure that interconnection practices for voice services are just and 
reasonable and not unreasonably discriminatory. We believe changes in 
the marketplace since the passage of the 1996 Act's monopoly-ending 
provisions have reduced competing providers' reliance on incumbent LECs 
in provisioning service to their customers. In the span of a little 
over 20 years, reliance on legacy networks has dropped precipitously: 
the number of reported end-user switched access lines declined from 181 
million to just 18 million, far fewer than the 64.5 million 
interconnected VoIP subscriptions or 288.3 million mobile subscriptions 
reported in June 2024. Consequently, we seek comment on whether 
incumbent LECs continue to have the ability or the incentive to engage 
in the kinds of harmful practices typically associated with a monopoly 
power with respect to retail voice service, and whether it is still 
necessary to differentiate incumbent LECs from other carriers with 
regard to interconnection. We also seek comment on whether 
interconnection needs could be met pursuant to sections 201 and 251(a).
    To what extent, if any, are these additional requirements for 
incumbent LECs still necessary to ensure providers' practices remain 
just and reasonable? Assuming carriers cannot avoid interconnecting 
with incumbent LECs, would incumbent LECs have incentive to take 
advantage of that? Do incumbent LECs still exert sufficient control 
over the marketplace to do so? How does the balance of negotiating 
power differ among the providers today and would that negotiating power 
change depending on whether the proposals herein are adopted? Absent 
Commission regulations, would disputes arise between incumbent LECs and 
competing carriers that could lead to access issues, such as for 
terminating access or selective router access for 911? Do the 
Commission's 911 service rules affect LECs' pricing power over 
facilities used to route 911 calls? How does the Act's collocation 
requirement ensure just and reasonable practices, if at all? How does 
the transition of providers' networks to IP affect the necessity of the 
Act's collocation mandate? Are there any cost savings for incumbent LEC 
from not having to collocate equipment?
    Ensuring protection of consumers (section 10(a)(2)). We seek 
comment on whether enforcement of these statutes and regulations is 
necessary for the continued protection of consumers. We believe that 
the Act's additional interconnection requirements for incumbent LECs 
are no longer necessary for consumers' protection given the explosive 
growth in competition from competitive carriers and interconnected VoIP 
service providers. We believe that such competition renders the kinds 
of consumer protections afforded by sections 251(c)(2) and (c)(6) 
unnecessary. We seek comment on this belief. With incumbent LECs' need 
to compete on more even grounds as a result of their eroded market 
dominance, we do not anticipate rate increases by incumbent LECs or 
that other costs would otherwise be absorbed by consumers. Do 
commenters agree? Does forbearance risk stranding consumers, as alleged 
by NCTA? Would forbearance expose consumers to disruptions, 
discontinuation of voice service, or otherwise affect carriers' ability 
to provide service? Are there concerns specific to customers of small 
and rural carriers? What role does our collocation requirement play, if 
any, in continuing to protect consumers?
    Consistent with the public interest (section 10(a)(3)). We believe 
that forbearance from the Act's additional interconnection requirements 
for incumbent LECs would be consistent with the public interest, in 
part by improving market competition and ultimately encouraging the 
transition to modernized networks and services. As outlined above, we 
seek comment whether burdening incumbent LECs alone with direct 
interconnection obligations for retail voice service continues to make 
sense given their lack of dominance in the market. Rather, we seek 
comment on whether incumbent LECs no longer possess especial leverage 
in negotiating with competitive LECs or in competing for customers, and 
whether competitive carriers' stronger market position today enables 
them to negotiate agreements to interconnect and collocate their 
equipment in the absence of rules requiring as much. We also seek 
comment on whether the Act's current requirements distort the market 
unnecessarily by shifting costs almost entirely to incumbent LECs 
rather than allowing the parties to negotiate their distribution. By 
forbearing, we would seek to remedy this distortion and in turn improve 
market competition. Do commenters agree with our assessment? Is this 
analysis of the market correct? Do competitive carriers today face 
challenges in interconnecting with incumbent LECs, particularly in IP? 
Should we consider whether large incumbents can leverage other services 
to exact market concessions from smaller providers? Do incumbent LECs 
ever refuse outright to interconnect in IP or otherwise resist 
interconnecting

[[Page 54272]]

outside of TDM? If so, to what extent is this the result of incumbent 
LECs' additional interconnection obligations under 251(c)? Would 
forbearance encourage interconnection in IP? What incentives exist for 
incumbent LECs to interconnect with competitive LECs and other 
competing providers in TDM versus IP?
    We also believe that forbearing from the Act's additional 
interconnection requirements for incumbent LECs would free up resources 
for use in development and deployment of next-generation networks, 
promoting the public interest and counseling in favor of forbearance. 
Do commenters agree? Do we need to forbear from any section to support 
the transition to IP? Would forbearance assist in ending the digital 
divide, whether through hastening the IP transition or otherwise? What 
other benefits might inure to the public as a result of forbearance? 
Would forbearance need to be tailored in any way to accommodate the 
particular needs of small or rural carriers, and if so, how? What harms 
to the public interest do commenters anticipate, if any, and are they 
outweighed by the benefits resulting from increased competition, more 
efficient networks, and availability of additional resources for next-
generation high-speed networks?
    Extent of forbearance. We further seek comment on whether the 
Commission should forbear from section 251(c)(2) entirely or whether we 
should only partially forbear to the extent that section 251(c)(2) 
imposes obligations on incumbent LECs interconnecting in TDM, 
specifically. That is, to the extent that section 251(c)(2) could be 
read to authorize the FCC to newly impose additional requirements on 
incumbent LECs when they interconnect with other carriers for the 
exchange of IP voice traffic, we seek comment on whether the Commission 
should preserve that possibility by tailoring the scope of its 
forbearance. As outlined above, we seek comment whether incumbent LECs 
hold a specially advantaged position in the market relative to their 
competitors in the exchange of IP-based traffic. Is our analysis of the 
competitiveness of the market correct? How do we account for the 
continued existence of bottlenecks in voice markets? How does any of 
the foregoing forbearance analysis differ if we were to only partially 
forbear from section 251(c)(2)? Are there other reasons the Commission 
should maintain the possibility of additional obligations for incumbent 
LECs in the IP context? Do carriers rely on our rules implementing 
section 251(c)(2) when they interconnect for the exchange of VoIP 
traffic? Absent section 251(c)(2), what would happen to interconnection 
arrangements reliant thereon? If the Commission were to only partially 
forbear, how should the Commission approach making any changes to our 
implementing rules?
    Commission rules. We seek comment on how the Commission should 
address its implementing rules in light of the proposed forbearance. 
Could the Commission delete Sec. Sec.  51.305, 51.321, and 51.323 
outright? Are there reasons to maintain those rules, whether in whole 
or in part? If the Commission partially forbore from sections 251(c)(2) 
and (6) of the Act, and did not eliminate its rules implementing those 
sections, would any changes need to be made? Would other sections of 
the Commission's rules require reevaluation or amendment in light of 
their deletion or modification?
    Interruptions to 911 service. We also seek comment whether 
forbearing from the interconnection and collocation requirements in 
section 251(c)(2) and (6) create any risk of interruptions to 911 
service. As we noted recently, there are areas where 911 authorities 
and OSPs have either not begun or have not yet completed the transition 
to NG911 and continue to rely on legacy selective routers and other 
TDM-based infrastructure for delivery of 911 calls to public safety 
answering points (PSAPs). Some commenters have suggested that delivery 
of 911 calls could be disrupted if carriers of 911 traffic lose access 
to critical TDM circuits in the 911 call path and are not provided 
sufficient opportunity to establish alternate IP connections to those 
facilities. To what extent do carriers rely on the interconnection and 
collocation rights in sections 251(c)(2) and (6) to obtain access to 
selective routers and other critical 911 circuits? Is there a risk that 
incumbent LECs may refuse access or charge unfair prices if we exercise 
forbearance? If we sunset incumbent LEC interconnection and collocation 
obligations under sections 251(c)(2) and (6) on December 31, 2028--as 
we propose below--will that provide carriers sufficient time to secure 
long-term access to alternative facilities that support routing and 
delivery of 911 calls? We seek comment on whether any additional 
safeguards are needed to ensure the continuity of 911 service. For 
example, should we carve out an exception to our forbearance for 
interconnections and collocations at a selective router? Should the 
Commission, on a case-by-case basis, direct incumbent LECs to 
interconnect or allow collocation when necessary to preserve 911 
service? On what basis would the Commission have the authority to do 
so?
    Mitigating harm to critical infrastructure services. We seek 
comment on how the Commission can avoid any harm to critical 
infrastructure services in forbearing from interconnection and 
collocation obligations specific to incumbent LECs. Would forbearance 
affect the ability of critical infrastructure industries, government 
agencies, or public safety entities to maintain operations and 
services? If so, how and to what extent? Can the Commission take steps 
to mitigate any potential harms? For example, should forbearance from 
these obligations be conditional, or include a carveout for 
interconnection and collocation arrangements that are used to provide 
services to public safety entities or critical infrastructure purposes?
    Full implementation of section 251(c) of the Act (section 10(d)). 
Section 10(d) of the Act requires the Commission to determine whether 
the requirements in section 251(c) of the Act ``have been fully 
implemented'' before forbearing from its provisions. We believe that 
section 251(c) of the Act has been fully implemented, and seek comment 
on this view. The Commission has previously concluded that full 
implementation occurred when its implementing rules went into effect. 
The D.C. Circuit upheld this conclusion in Qwest Corp. v. FCC. We seek 
comment on any current and relevant aspects of the fully implemented 
requirement. We further seek comment on whether the Commission's 
determination in the Qwest Forbearance Order that section 251(c) has 
been fully implemented constitutes the best reading of the statute, 
consistent with the Supreme Court's decision in Loper Bright.
3. Establishing a Date Certain
    We propose to forbear from the interconnection obligations specific 
to incumbent LECs under sections 251(c)(2) and (6) of the Act, as well 
as our rules implementing those provisions, as of December 31, 2028. We 
seek comment on our proposal. We believe that this date provides 
sufficient time for affected parties to make any necessary alternative 
arrangements. Importantly, we note that sunsetting incumbent LEC-
specific interconnection obligations is not tantamount to a prohibition 
on TDM interconnection. Incumbent LECs, like other providers, could 
continue interconnecting in TDM, and all telecommunications carriers 
would still bear the duty to interconnect pursuant to sections 201 and 
251(a) of the Act.

[[Page 54273]]

    Do commenters agree with our proposal? We seek comment on the costs 
and benefits of establishing December 31, 2028 as the sunset date. If 
commenters believe that a different date would be more appropriate, 
what criteria should the Commission use in evaluating the feasibility 
of a given date? Should there be a single date by which all incumbent 
LECs' additional interconnection obligations under section 251(c)(2) 
and (6) are sunset, or should the Commission stagger its sunsetting of 
these requirements? Do the particular challenges of small and rural 
carriers necessitate a different or tailored approach? What other dates 
do commenters propose, and what are the costs and benefits associated 
with those dates? What other factors or issues should the Commission 
take into account when determining a sunset date's feasibility? Is this 
timeframe feasible for seamless accessibility-related transitions?
    We seek comment on what changes carriers will need to make to their 
networks prior to our proposed date of December 31, 2028, for 
forbearance. What steps must be taken, both by incumbent LECs and the 
providers with which they interconnect? What steps do small and rural 
carriers, specifically, need to take, and what are the associated 
costs? What steps would other relevant parties, such as those that 
provide critical infrastructure services, need to take? Should the 
Commission establish intermediate deadlines by which certain benchmarks 
must be met, e.g., if we imposed requirements on establishing new or 
modified agreements? Are there any kinds of benchmarks we should 
establish after the sunset date?
    We also seek comment on how existing agreements might be affected. 
For example, change-in-law provisions of a contract might allow for 
renegotiation of terms or establish the means by which to resolve 
disputes. Do providers anticipate modifying existing interconnection 
agreements or entering into new agreements? What opportunities or 
challenges might arise? How does the balance of negotiating power 
differ among the providers today and would that negotiating power 
change depending on whether the proposals herein are adopted? Would 
forbearance from certain requirements be likely to necessitate 
renegotiation of existing agreements, or are those agreements likely to 
remain unaffected by forbearance? Do small and rural carriers 
anticipate particular challenges with making arrangements following the 
elimination of our additional interconnection requirements for 
incumbent LECs, such as by needing to lease third-party networks or 
services or purchase equipment and other technology for network 
upgrades? Are there any steps the Commission should take to prevent 
unnecessary disruption and costs to providers while they make 
preparations to transition their networks and agreements?
    Other Commission timelines. Additionally, we seek comment on 
whether and how setting December 31, 2028 as the date certain for 
ending incumbent LEC-specific interconnection obligations will affect 
other related and adjacent timeframes adopted or being considered by 
the Commission. As discussed below, the Commission has previously 
established or proposed timelines for matters that may affect 
providers' transitions of their networks to IP. Simultaneously, we 
recognize that the additional interconnection obligations imposed on 
incumbent LECs under sections 251(c)(2) and (6) may affect the parties' 
willingness or ability to interconnect in IP. How should the timeframe 
for forbearance account for our other timeframes? We specifically seek 
comment in the context of NG911, caller ID authentication, and 
technology transitions.
    First, we seek comment on the effect of our NG911 requirements on 
any proposed date certain for ending incumbent LEC-specific 
interconnection obligations. We note that although the Commission 
declined to ``reference any specific standard or set of standards as 
part of the codified definition of NG911,'' at least one of the 
commonly accepted standards envisions an end-state NG911 as contingent 
on ubiquitous IP networks. Would forbearing from sections 251(c)(2) and 
(6) to the extent described above impact changes being made to upgrade 
networks to IP and deploy NG911 systems? How else might deployment of 
NG911 affect the feasibility of our proposed sunset date for additional 
interconnection obligations for incumbent LECs, or vice versa?
    Second, we seek comment on extending the two-year timeframe 
proposed in the Non-IP Caller ID Authentication NPRM, which would give 
providers two years to either upgrade their networks to IP or to 
implement a non-IP caller ID authentication solution, to December 31, 
2028, or whatever sunset date we ultimately adopt. We believe that 
aligning the dates of our proposals in this manner best facilitates the 
goals of each item and avoids any inconsistencies or redundancies that 
might otherwise arise. Do commenters agree? What other considerations 
should we take into account in light of the Non-IP Caller ID 
Authentication NPRM's proposals?
    Third, we seek comment on the effect our proposals in the 
Technology Transitions NPRM would have on sunsetting additional 
interconnection obligations for incumbent LECs. Do these proposals bear 
on our proposed date of December 31, 2028? Or vice versa? Specifically, 
how does the timing of our streamlining or forbearance proposals in the 
Technology Transitions NPRM affect setting a date for ending incumbent 
LECs' additional interconnection obligations? What are the implications 
of forbearing from section 251(c)(5) before, concurrently, or after 
forbearing from sections 251(c)(2) and (6)? Are there other 
considerations about which the Commission should be mindful?
4. Other Regulatory Frameworks and Rules Affected by Eliminating the 
Incumbent LEC-Specific Interconnection Obligations
    We seek comment on whether forbearing from section 251(c)(2) and 
from section 251(c)(6) (to the extent it requires incumbent LECs to 
provide for physical collocation of interconnection equipment) and 
eliminating the Commission rules implementing those provisions would 
require updating other Commission rules or bear on other statutory 
frameworks. For example, our numbering rules require an interconnected 
VoIP provider that has obtained an authorization for direct access to 
numbering resources from the Commission to demonstrate that the 
applicant is or will be capable of providing service to the area within 
sixty (60) days of the numbering resources activation date--often 
referred to as ``facilities readiness''--before obtaining North 
American Numbering Plan (NANP) numbers. The Commission has explained 
that an interconnected VoIP provider can satisfy that requirement by 
providing (1) a combination of an agreement between the interconnected 
VoIP provider and its carrier partner and an interconnection agreement 
between that carrier and the relevant LEC, or (2) proof that the 
interconnected VoIP provider obtains interconnection with the PSTN 
pursuant to a tariffed offering or a commercial arrangement (such as a 
TDM-to-IP or VoIP interconnection agreement) providing access to the 
PSTN. We seek comment on whether an IP-to-IP interconnection agreement 
for local call exchange should be sufficient under section 52.15(g)(2), 
if the Commission were to adopt its proposal to forbear from 
interconnection and

[[Page 54274]]

related obligations under sections 251(c)(2) and (6) of the Act. We 
note that in 2023 the Commission declined to revise section 52.15(g)(2) 
to specify additional documentation, instead retaining flexibility to 
consider each application. Is that approach still appropriate now, or 
should our rules explicitly recognize IP-based interconnection as 
fulfilling the requirement? Would interconnection to the PSTN still be 
necessary? Are there other numbering administration matters that 
providers would need to address before and after a transition to IP 
interconnection, such as call routing, number assignments, and toll-
free routing? In the event that we grant relief from incumbent LEC-
specific interconnection obligations, are there any changes necessary 
to the definition of interconnected VoIP?
    Do LECs leasing remaining UNEs pursuant to section 251(c)(3) 
require interconnection pursuant to section 251(c)(2) and Sec.  51.323 
of our rules? To what extent would ending such interconnection 
obligations have the practical effect of eliminating remaining 
incumbent LEC UNE obligations? If they do, is this a desirable result? 
We invite comment on whether our rules governing UNE loops, subloops, 
network interface devices, or other legacy elements would need to be 
revised or forborne from.
    While the NPRM we adopt today focuses on interconnection 
obligations for incumbent LECs and immediately related issues, we note 
that the Commission's rules related to tariffing and access charge 
requirements stem directly from the legacy TDM framework; we intend to 
address any such related issues as needed in separate future items. In 
this item, however, we welcome commenters' views on any other rules or 
sections of the Act that might be rendered obsolete or redundant by the 
elimination of incumbent LEC-specific interconnection obligations. We 
also ask commenters to identify any provisions (for example, in 
sections 251(b)(1)-(4) or 252 of the Act, Parts 51 or 52 of our rules, 
or elsewhere) that should be updated or clarified, or from which we 
should forbear. For example, should we eliminate any requirement that 
local exchange carriers offer presubscribed interexchange providers and 
the information-sharing requirements associated with that requirement? 
Does the strict distinction between local and long-distance service, 
and associated concepts like presubscribed interexchange carriers and 
LATAs continue to make sense in an all-IP world?

C. Appropriate Regulatory Framework for Interconnection for IP Voice 
Services

    We seek comment on whether and how the Commission should modify its 
regulatory framework for interconnection to account for IP voice 
services. As the Commission has previously stated, ``[i]t is important 
that any IP-to-IP interconnection policy framework adopted by the 
Commission be narrowly tailored to avoid intervention in areas where 
the marketplace will operate.'' Today, carriers can freely negotiate 
how IP-to-IP interconnection occurs absent heavy-handed Commission 
regulation. We seek comment on whether there has been any demonstrated 
need for Commission intervention. Have market incentives proved 
sufficient to meet the needs contemplated by Congress and the Act? Do 
any carriers possess sufficient market power to pressure other carriers 
into accepting unfavorable interconnection terms?
    Does the regulatory framework established for traffic exchange 
under section 251(a) continue to make sense for IP-to-IP 
interconnection for voice services, or should it more closely resemble 
the light-touch regulatory approach taken in other areas, including 
internet traffic exchange? How does the network architecture for 
interconnected VoIP differ from that of best-efforts internet? Do any 
particular technical characteristics counsel toward or away from the 
need for Commission oversight of interconnection for VoIP service? To 
what extent might the current dynamics of the IP-to-IP voice 
interconnection marketplace change if we forbore from the TDM 
interconnection obligations for incumbent LECs under sections 251(c)(2) 
and (6)? Are there aspects of section 251(c)(2)'s framework that are 
needed in an IP interconnection environment, and if so, who should 
those aspects apply to? For example, is the incumbent LECs' 
responsibility to exchange TDM traffic within existing LATA boundaries 
appropriate for VoIP traffic today? If so, given that incumbent LECs 
serve approximately one fourth of all wireline subscriptions, should 
that burden fall exclusively on one part of the market (such as today's 
incumbent LECs or comparable carriers) or on all VoIP operators? What 
protections are needed to ensure secure and efficient delivery of VoIP 
calls? How should any IP interconnection framework for general voice 
traffic account for the existing NG911 framework and its requirement 
for carriers to hand off 911 traffic in IP at designated points of 
connection within each state? To what extent would a transition to an 
all-IP infrastructure affect accessibility for people with 
disabilities? Are there still devices or services, such as TTY or 
speech-to-speech, that require TDM technology? We invite detailed 
comment on how the Commission should account for these issues and those 
raised below.
    Scope of traffic and services. We seek comment on the scope of 
traffic and services that a framework specific to IP-to-IP 
interconnection for voice traffic should encompass. Should the 
Commission distinguish between managed or facilities-based VoIP and 
over-the-top VoIP? Should the Commission's framework encompass all U.S. 
domestic voice providers that use NANP resources? Are there any 
definitional or other challenges that exist in attempting to categorize 
the different types of VoIP traffic? How can we avoid any regulatory 
asymmetries that could distort the market or otherwise harm consumers? 
Would adopting an IP interconnection framework for interconnected VoIP 
traffic compel providers to exchange VoIP traffic under different 
technological or legal arrangements from those that providers use to 
exchange other IP traffic? Could the interconnection framework be 
structured to provide certain interconnection rights with respect to 
the exchange of VoIP traffic, or certain types of VoIP traffic, while 
giving providers the freedom to exchange other IP traffic as they are 
doing now? What impact, if any, would such an approach have on any 
preexisting arrangements for the exchange of voice or non-voice IP 
traffic?
    We also seek comment on whether any such regulatory framework 
should distinguish between different types of carriers. For example, 
should our rules differentiate between incumbent LECs, rural LECs, 
competitive LECs, or interconnected VoIP providers, particularly if 
providers interconnect through the internet and not through individual 
incumbent LEC switches in multiple LATAs? Do other classes of 
providers, such as originating versus terminating, require specific 
rule subsets? Does the type of VoIP service provided--e.g., facilities-
based versus over-the-top--warrant or necessitate different regulatory 
schemes?
    Duty to interconnect. We seek comment on whether the Commission 
should adopt rules to require carriers to interconnect in IP, 
specifically, for voice traffic. Should the Commission mandate that 
carriers provide direct IP-to-IP interconnection? Alternatively, should 
the Commission require IP-to-IP interconnection but permit carriers to

[[Page 54275]]

do so indirectly? Should the Commission require carriers to make an IP 
address available on public internet at which it will receive voice 
traffic, and should such a requirement be instead of or in addition to 
a direct interconnection requirement? Should the Commission prohibit 
incumbent LECs from requesting that other carriers or VoIP providers 
exchange traffic in TDM, or alternatively, require the provider 
requesting TDM interconnection to bear the costs of conversion of IP 
traffic? Should the Commission prohibit carriers from distinguishing 
between different types of traffic or providers in its receipt of voice 
traffic? What requirements would the Commission need to specify if it 
undertook any such approach? What are the benefits and drawbacks of 
these various alternatives?
    We seek comment whether the Commission should impose certain 
baseline requirements, such as particular terms and conditions, on IP-
to-IP interconnection agreements. Does the application of terms like 
``just and reasonable'' under section 201 and ``not unjust or 
unreasonably discriminatory'' under section 202 of the Act differ in an 
all-IP context? If so, how? How otherwise might any VoIP 
interconnection obligation differ from that currently imposed on 
incumbent LECs and other telecommunications carriers in the TDM 
context? Would incumbent LECs and interconnecting carriers need to 
specify a date by which there could no longer be changes to existing 
TDM interconnection arrangements, or to certain terms in those 
agreements, in preparation of a proposed sunset date? Would a numbering 
directory similar to that required for telecommunications relay 
services (TRS) under Sec.  64.613 of our rules allow IP-to-IP traffic 
to be easily routed in the absence of direct interconnection 
agreements? What would the costs and benefits of any of the approaches 
outlined above be? For small and rural carriers, specifically?
    Duty to negotiate in good faith. We also seek comment on whether 
the Commission should impose additional or specific requirements for 
IP-to-IP interconnection for voice service related to a carrier's duty 
to negotiate in good faith. The Commission has previously recognized 
that the ``duty to negotiate in good faith has been a longstanding 
element of interconnection requirements under the Communications Act,'' 
irrespective of the ``network technology underlying the 
interconnection, whether TDM, IP, or otherwise.'' The Commission in 
2011 espoused its expectation that all carriers negotiate in good faith 
in response to requests for IP-to-IP interconnection for the exchange 
of voice traffic and that such good faith negotiations will result in 
interconnection arrangements between IP networks. We seek comment on 
whether the Commission's expectation has been realized in the past 
decade and a half. Was the Commission's stated expectation sufficient 
to ensure that IP interconnection arrangements for the exchange of 
voice traffic came to fruition in a timely manner? If not, how can the 
Commission ensure that all providers of voice services negotiate in 
good faith in response to requests for IP-to-IP interconnection for the 
exchange of voice traffic?
    IP voice traffic POIs. We seek comment on whether the Commission 
should determine POIs for VoIP in an all-IP world. If so, how would the 
Commission do so? Could or should the Commission require POIs in each 
state, region, or tandem, or at certain ``technically feasible'' 
points? How does the concept of technical feasibility apply in end-to-
end IP networks? Does the concept of LATAs continue to make sense in an 
all-IP world? By comparison, how many interconnection points do 
providers use to interconnect with the internet? Should the Commission 
limit the number of required POIs? We seek comment on what role, if 
any, the Commission should play in developing a POI framework for IP 
interconnection for voice services, and on approaches that do not 
impose overly prescriptive regimes that detract from the efficiencies 
of IP networks. Could or should the Commission require interconnection 
at existing NG911 Delivery Points where they exist? Would doing so 
interfere with a state's ability to determine the configuration of 
their emergency services networks? What call routing requirements are 
needed, if any, to ensure continued functionality of services such as 
E911 or 988? Should the Commission require certain categories of voice 
traffic be managed? What should be the role of technical standards-
setting bodies in developing a framework for IP interconnection?
    Exchanging VoIP traffic over the public internet. We seek comment 
on whether the Commission can and should encourage the exchange of IP 
voice traffic over the public internet. What efficiencies could be 
derived through exchanging IP-based voice traffic over the internet? 
Would individually-negotiated contracts be needed? Are there voice 
carriers today that do not have existing connections to the internet 
for the provision of consumer internet connectivity to their customers? 
We seek comment on what tools would need to be developed to efficiently 
implement such a solution. For example, how would call routing work? 
Would a database connecting phone numbers to a carrier gateway's IP 
address need to be developed? Would such a database require technical 
standards work, and are there any efforts on this front already 
underway?
    Role of states. Finally, we seek comment on what role states should 
play, if any, in VoIP interconnection and on the landscape of state 
regulation of IP-to-IP interconnection today. Has any state role been 
necessary for the establishment of IP interconnection agreements for 
voice traffic to date? What equities do the states have in ensuring 
efficient interconnection of intrastate and interstate voice traffic? 
What role should the Commission play in overseeing any state regulation 
of VoIP interconnection? Have state actions with respect to VoIP 
interconnection been consistent with federal policy? Have they been 
helpful, or a hindrance, to promoting the IP transition? We seek 
comment whether the Commission should exercise preemption authority 
over matters related to interconnected VoIP interconnection. If the 
Commission adopts rules for a framework for IP-to-IP interconnection, 
should those rules limit the states' role in IP-to-IP interconnection, 
or prohibit states from attaching certain conditions to IP 
interconnection negotiations and agreements?

D. Commission Authority Over VoIP Interconnection

    To the extent that a regulatory framework governing interconnection 
for IP voice services is necessary, we seek comment on the best 
authority under which the Commission could or should adopt rules or 
requirements to govern IP interconnection for voice services. We also 
seek comment on which authority is most consistent with our statute as 
a whole. Specifically, we seek comment on the particular statutory 
authority that would provide the strongest basis for any interconnected 
VoIP interconnection framework we might adopt. We also seek comment on 
how to carefully circumscribe the scope of traffic or services subject 
to any such framework to leave issues to the marketplace that 
appropriately can be resolved there.
    However, the Commission has not broadly determined whether Voice 
over internet Protocol (VoIP) providers are ``telecommunications 
carriers,'' whether

[[Page 54276]]

VoIP services, including interconnected VoIP, are ``telecommunications 
services'' or ``information services,'' or whether VoIP services 
constitute ``telephone exchange service'' or ``exchange access'' for 
the purposes of interconnection rights under sections 201 and 251. 
Under Commission rules and precedent, providers of interconnected VoIP 
service may in certain circumstances be treated as telecommunications 
carriers. For example, the Commission and states have recognized that 
interconnected VoIP providers may seek designation as Eligible 
Telecommunications Carriers (ETCs) to participate in universal service 
programs, so long as they voluntarily hold themselves out as common 
carriers and meet the applicable requirements. Commission precedent 
suggests that the statutory terms defining section 251's scope are not 
confined to legacy TDM-based offerings, but rather turn on the 
functional nature of the service regardless of protocol. The 
Commission's technology-neutral reading of these definitions is also 
consistent with how the Commission has approached interconnection 
rights under section 251 in the context of IP-based voice services. In 
the USF/ICC Transformation Order, the Commission observed that 
``interconnection requirements [under section 251] are technology 
neutral--they do not vary based on whether one or both of the 
interconnecting providers is using TDM, IP, or another technology in 
their underlying networks.'' Although the Commission refrained from 
explicitly ruling that IP-to-IP interconnection is mandated under 
section 251, it found that the statutory language was neutral on its 
face as to the underlying network technology, and encouraged parties to 
negotiate such arrangements in good faith.
    Section 251(a)(1). Section 251(a)(1) requires all 
telecommunications carriers to interconnect either directly or 
indirectly. The requirements of this provision extend broadly to all 
telecommunications carriers, and are technology neutral on their face 
with respect to the transmission protocol used for purposes of 
interconnection. Can the Commission require providers of voice service 
to interconnect in IP under section 251(a)? Could the Commission rely 
on section 251(a)(1) to require IP interconnection between facilities-
based interconnected VoIP providers that have not been classified as 
either a telecommunications service or an information service under the 
Act?
    We seek comment whether section 251(a) provides the Commission 
authority to adopt rules, if necessary, requiring providers of voice 
service to make interconnection arrangements for the exchange of voice 
traffic in IP, and to negotiate good faith arrangements for the same.
    To that end, we seek comment on whether providers of interconnected 
VoIP service are or could be telecommunications carriers (or common 
carriers). As the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals explained in NARUC II, 
``the primary sine qua non of common carrier status is a quasi-public 
character, which arises out of the undertaking `to carry for all people 
indifferently.' '' The court went on to explain that the second 
prerequisite to common carrier status, ``formulated by the FCC with 
peculiar applicability to the communications field,'' is that the 
system be such that customers transmit intelligence of their own design 
and choosing. We seek comment on whether providers of interconnected 
VoIP service are common carriers under this test.
    While the Commission has not affirmatively classified all VoIP 
offerings as either a telecommunications service or information 
service, it has nonetheless recognized that providers may elect to 
offer interconnected VoIP as a telecommunications service. We thus seek 
comment on whether the Commission must classify all interconnected VoIP 
as a telecommunications service in order to regulate interconnected 
VoIP providers as telecommunications carriers, given that the Act 
states that a ``telecommunications carrier shall be treated as a common 
carrier under this chapter only to the extent that it is engaged in 
providing telecommunications services.'' Can providers of 
interconnected VoIP service avail themselves of section 251(a) by 
offering interconnected VoIP service on a common carrier basis? If so, 
do both sides of IP-to-IP interconnection need to be offering VoIP on a 
common carrier basis for the section 251(a) interconnection obligations 
to apply? Do both sides need to agree that the VoIP service is being 
offered as a common carrier service? To ensure that any carrier seeking 
the benefits of such a classification also accepts the accompanying 
burdens (such as the section 251(a) duty to accept interconnections 
from others), should we require a carrier seeking to offer VoIP on a 
common carrier basis to do so throughout their territory or throughout 
an entire state? We also seek comment whether, if a carrier elects to 
offer such VoIP services as telecommunications services, and does so 
without changing the rates, terms, or conditions of service for the 
customer, it should be viewed ``as a transition of underlying network 
technology, analogous to a provider undertaking a switch migration.''
    Section 201. The Commission has historically imposed 
interconnection obligations pursuant to section 201 of the Act. We seek 
comment on whether section 201 provides the Commission authority to 
mandate IP interconnection obligations for voice traffic, including for 
intrastate traffic--either alone, or in conjunction with, other 
provisions of the Act--under the interconnection frameworks we explore 
today. Section 201(a) imposes a duty on ``common carrier[s]'' engaged 
in ``interstate or foreign communication by wire or radio'' to 
``establish physical connections with other carriers'' in cases where 
the Commission finds it necessary or desirable in the public interest. 
(We observe that the Commission found interconnected VoIP to a be a 
jurisdictionally mixed use service in the Vonage Order, and determined 
that it was not possible to separate out the purely intrastate uses 
from the interstate uses.) Section 201(b) further requires that all 
``charges, practices, classifications, and regulations for or in 
connection with common carrier service'' be just and reasonable and not 
unjust or unreasonable. Section 201(b) also permits the Commission to 
``prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary in the 
public interest to carry out the provisions of'' the Communications 
Act. We seek comment whether these provisions provide the Commission 
authority to adopt rules, if necessary, requiring providers of voice 
service to make interconnection arrangements for the exchange of voice 
traffic in IP, and to negotiate good faith arrangements for the same. 
Is this approach most consistent with the best reading of the statute? 
Does the fact that section 251 specifically governs interconnection 
bear on whether section 201 can authorize regulations governing IP 
interconnection? We observe that section 251 includes a savings 
provision specifying that nothing in section 251 ``shall be construed 
to limit or otherwise affect the Commission's authority under section 
201.'' What is the import of this provision in evaluating our authority 
of section 201(a) with respect to IP interconnection? Could regulations 
addressing VoIP interconnection be grounded in our authority that 
``[a]ll charges, practices, classifications, and regulations for or in 
connection with [common carrier] service shall be just

[[Page 54277]]

and reasonable''? Would a section 201 approach be limited only to 
interstate and foreign communications?
    Section 251(c)(2). Were the Commission to forbear from 251(c)(2) 
with respect to TDM services, we seek comment whether section 251(c)(2) 
could provide the Commission the authority to address IP-to-IP 
interconnection. First, we observe that section 251(c)(2)'s direct 
interconnection obligations only extend to some incumbent LECs (not 
rural telephone companies nor mobile carriers nor competitive LECs) and 
requesting telecommunications carriers (other than interexchange 
carriers) seeking interconnection with them. Given this framework, 
would it be appropriate to ground any IP-to-IP interconnection 
obligations for voice services in the Commission's authority under 
section 251(c)(2)? If so, would the Commission need to classify VoIP 
services as telecommunications services for section 251(c)(2) to govern 
interconnection for IP voice services under this provision? Or would it 
be sufficient that a VoIP provider held itself out as providing its 
service on a common carrier basis? Relatedly, we also seek comment 
whether interconnection for the exchange of VoIP traffic would be ``for 
the transmission and routing of telephone exchange service and exchange 
access.'' Or to put it differently, if the Commission did classify VoIP 
as a telecommunications service, would section 251(c)(2) apply, if so, 
to whom and in what respect? And assuming it did apply, should the 
Commission nonetheless forbear from applying section 251(c)(2) to VoIP?
    Section 256. We also seek comment on whether section 256 of the Act 
provides the Commission authority to regulate IP interconnection for 
voice service. Section 256(a) states that the purpose of the section is 
``to ensure the ability of users and information providers to 
seamlessly and transparently transmit and receive information between 
and across telecommunications networks.'' The Commission ``shall 
establish procedures for Commission oversight of coordinated network 
planning by telecommunications carriers and other providers of 
telecommunications service for the effective and efficient 
interconnection of public telecommunications networks used to provide 
telecommunications service.'' To what extent does this section provide 
a source of authority for regulation of IP interconnection given the 
statement in section 256(c) that ``[n]othing in this section shall be 
construed as expanding or limiting any authority that the Commission 
may have under law in effect before February 8, 1996''?
    Section 227b. We seek comment on whether section 227b provides 
authority for rules governing IP interconnection for voice services. 
Pursuant to section 227b(b)(1), all voice service providers are 
required to implement the STIR/SHAKEN caller ID authentication 
framework in their IP networks, and the Commission has extended that 
obligation to intermediate providers. Providers must also take 
reasonable measures to implement an effective caller ID authentication 
framework in their non-IP networks, but are not required to do so until 
a non-IP caller ID authentication framework has been developed and is 
reasonably available. In applying these provisions, the Commission 
requires voice service providers to either upgrade their entire 
networks to IP and fully implement STIR/SHAKEN or participate in 
efforts to develop a non-IP caller ID authentication framework. Section 
227b(b)(5)(D) requires the Commission to ``take reasonable measures to 
address any'' burdens or barriers to the implementation of STIR/SHAKEN 
or a non-IP caller ID authentication framework, and to ``enable as 
promptly as reasonable full participation of all classes of providers 
of voice service and types of voice calls'' in these frameworks. We 
seek comment on whether regulating IP interconnection would be a 
reasonable measure to address the burdens and barriers of STIR/SHAKEN 
implementation as necessary to enable full participation in the 
framework as promptly as reasonable.
    Ancillary Authority. We seek comment whether the Commission can 
rely upon ancillary authority as a basis for an IP interconnection 
regulatory framework. The Commission may exercise ancillary 
jurisdiction only when two conditions are satisfied: (1) the 
Commission's general jurisdictional grant under Title I of the Act 
covers the regulated subject and (2) the regulations are reasonably 
ancillary to the Commission's effective performance of its statutorily 
mandated responsibilities. Regarding the first prong, because 
interconnected VoIP services are ``communications by wire or radio,'' 
the Commission has subject matter jurisdiction over IP traffic such as 
packetized voice traffic. With regard to the second prong, the D.C. 
Circuit in Comcast held that the Commission's use of ancillary 
authority must be linked to express delegations of regulatory 
authority. The Commission has previously relied in part--though not 
exclusively--on ancillary authority to apply certain of Title II's 
obligations to interconnected VoIP service--including obligations 
pertaining to section 222 customer proprietary network information 
(CPNI), local number portability, USF contribution, Form 499 regulatory 
fees, section 255 disability access and TRS, section 214 
discontinuance, outage reporting, truth-in-billing, and Form 477 
reporting.
    We seek comment whether any requirements the Commission might adopt 
to regulate interconnected VoIP interconnection would be reasonably 
ancillary to the Commission's exercise of its authority under a 
statutory provision, such as sections 201, 251(a), (e), 254, 615a-1(b), 
617(d), or other authority. For example, would the failure to make 
arrangements to interconnect, directly or indirectly, for the exchange 
of voice traffic in IP be reasonably ancillary to the Commission's 
authority to ensure that all practices in connection with common 
carrier services be just and reasonable under section 201? Would 
adopting an IP interconnection regulatory framework be ancillary to the 
Commission's obligation to enforce telecommunications carriers' duty to 
``interconnect directly or indirectly with the facilities and equipment 
of other telecommunications carriers?'' Is maintaining Commission 
oversight over interconnection for exchange of voice traffic ancillary 
to the Commission's authority over 911 emergency access? Similarly, 
under the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008 
(NET911 Act), IP-enabled voice service providers are required to 
provide 911 service and enhanced 911 (E911) service in accordance with 
Commission requirements, and have a right to interconnect with entities 
that provide such capabilities on the same rates, terms, and conditions 
as that provided to CMRS providers. Further, the Twenty-First Century 
Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 (CVAA) authorizes 
the Commission to implement regulations necessary to achieve reliable 
and interoperable communication that ensures access to an IP-enabled 
emergency network by individuals with disabilities, where achievable 
and technically feasible. We seek comment on whether oversight over IP 
interconnection arrangements for voice service would be ancillary to 
the Commission's authorities for 911, including its obligation under 
the CVAA and its obligations to modify regulations implementing the 
NET911 Act ``from time to time, as necessitated by changes

[[Page 54278]]

in the market or technology, to ensure the ability of an IP-enabled 
voice service provider to comply with its obligations'' under the 
statute, observing that ``[n]othing in this section shall be construed 
to permit the Commission to issue regulations that require or impose a 
specific technology or technological standard.''
    Alternatively, or in addition, we seek comment on whether the 
Commission should adopt regulations pertaining to interconnection for 
VoIP services by relying on ancillary authority in conjunction with its 
authority under section 254. Section 254 provides that ``[a]ccess to 
advanced telecommunications and information services should be provided 
in all regions of the Nation,'' and that the Commission's universal 
service programs ``shall'' be based on this and other enumerated 
principles. Section 254(c)(1) states that ``[u]niversal service is an 
evolving level of telecommunications services that the Commission shall 
establish periodically under this section.'' Section 254(b) requires 
the Commission to base policies for the preservation and advancement of 
universal service on access to ``advanced telecommunications and 
information services.'' We seek comment whether rules to ensure 
interconnection of networks for the exchange of IP voice traffic would 
be ancillary to the Commission's obligation to enable advanced 
telecommunications services to be provided in all regions of the 
nation. Are there other sources of statutory authority to which 
interconnected VoIP interconnection obligations are ancillary? Finally, 
if the Commission were to rely on ancillary authority to impose 
requirements, would it also need to adopt associated complaint 
procedures, or could the existing informal and formal complaint 
processes, which derive from section 208, be interpreted to extend more 
broadly than alleged violations of Title II duties?
    Classification of Interconnected VoIP Service. For any proposed IP 
interconnection framework, we also seek comment on whether it is 
necessary, or appropriate, to address classification issues associated 
with facilities-based or over-the-top interconnected VoIP service. In 
particular, to the extent that an entity that historically was 
classified as an incumbent LEC or other telecommunications carrier 
ceased offering circuit-switched voice telephone service, and instead 
offered only interconnected VoIP service, we seek comment on whether 
that entity would remain a ``local exchange carrier'' or 
``telecommunications carrier.'' The Act defines a ``local exchange 
carrier'' as ``any person that is engaged in the provision of telephone 
exchange service or exchange access.'' The Act defines the term 
``telephone exchange service'' as ``(A) service within a telephone 
exchange, or within a connected system of telephone exchanges within 
the same exchange area operated to furnish to subscribers 
intercommunicating service of the character ordinarily furnished by a 
single exchange, and which is covered by the exchange service charge, 
or (B) comparable service provided through a system of switches, 
transmission equipment, or other facilities (or combination thereof) by 
which a subscriber can originate and terminate a telecommunications 
service.'' The term ``exchange access'' means the offering of access to 
telephone exchange services or facilities for the purpose of the 
origination or termination of telephone toll services. In the universal 
service context, the Commission has found that, insofar as a carrier 
elected to offer VoIP on a common carrier basis, it ``did not see a 
reason why such service would not also be classified as telephone 
exchange service and exchange access to the same extent as traditional 
voice telephone service.'' Would this same reasoning apply in the 
context of interconnection for VoIP services?
    As mentioned above, the Commission has not determined whether 
interconnected VoIP services are ``telecommunications services'' or 
``information services.'' To what extent would the Commission need to 
classify interconnected VoIP service as a ``telecommunications 
service'' under the Act to require voice providers to negotiate IP 
interconnection agreements for interconnected VoIP services or set 
other rules or requirements for IP-to-IP interconnection for VoIP 
services? The Act defines ``telecommunications service'' as the 
``offering of telecommunications for a fee directly to the public, or 
to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the 
public, regardless of the facilities used,'' and defines 
``telecommunications'' as ``the transmission, between or among points 
specified by the user, of information of the user's choosing, without 
any change in the form or content of the information as sent and 
received.'' We seek comment whether interconnected VoIP service is most 
appropriately classified as a ``telecommunications service'' under the 
best reading of the Act. Should all VoIP services be subject to Title 
II classification, or should we limit our actions to interconnected 
VoIP services? If so, why? Alternatively, are some offerings of VoIP 
(or interconnected VoIP) provided on a common carrier basis and others 
provided on a private carriage basis? If so, how should we distinguish 
them, both as a matter of law and as to what legal obligations should 
be imposed on each?
    Were the Commission to classify interconnected VoIP service as a 
telecommunications service, from what provisions of Title II should the 
Commission forbear with respect to interconnected VoIP service? Should 
the Commission forbear from provisions of Title II that it has thus far 
not found necessary to impose on interconnected VoIP service? We seek 
comment on whether there is any evidence of market failure in the 
provision of such VoIP services, or whether broader Title II regulation 
of VoIP services is otherwise necessary to protect consumers or ensure 
that rates, terms, and conditions are just and reasonable. If there is 
no evidence of market failure, we seek comment whether it would be in 
the public interest to forbear from all Title II requirements other 
than those the Commission currently applies to VoIP service. 
Alternatively, we seek comment on whether the Commission should align 
any forbearance for VoIP services with the forbearance granted to 
commercial mobile radio services.
    Other Sources of Authority. Finally, we seek comment on any other 
sources of Commission authority for adopting a policy framework for IP 
interconnection for interconnected voice services. What would be the 
scope and substance of the Commission's authority to address IP 
interconnection under that authority?

E. Cost Benefit Analysis

    Benefits. We seek comment on the benefits of forbearing from our 
specific interconnection obligations for incumbent LECs and on any 
potential regulatory framework for IP interconnection. As outlined 
above, the Commission believes that its current regulatory scheme 
imposes various costs on providers, whether on incumbent LECs or 
otherwise. We also anticipate that elimination of these burdens will, 
among other things, speed deployment of next-generation networks and 
services. We seek comment on the likely benefits of eliminating these 
costs, as well as any other benefits resulting from sunsetting our 
additional interconnection obligations for incumbent LECs.
    What regulatory costs will incumbent LECs avoid as a result of such 
deregulation? Carriers in general? What effect would the absence of 
Commission

[[Page 54279]]

intervention have on market competition? What impact could the other 
proposals herein have on competition? Does our current interconnection 
regime promote anticompetitive conduct, and would its elimination 
promote affordability of voice services or improved service offerings? 
How might small and rural carriers and their customers, in particular, 
benefit? What other benefits will inure to the public as a consequence? 
Do commenters believe, as the Commission anticipates, that eliminating 
incumbent LECs' additional interconnection obligations will hasten the 
IP transition? How should the Commission account for increased 
investment in next-generation networks in evaluating the benefits of 
forbearance? How will providers and the public benefit from ending 
carriers' reliance on expensive (and frequently stolen) copper, as well 
as TDM equipment that may be difficult to source? How does the cost of 
maintaining copper, TDM, and legacy facilities generally compare with 
the cost of maintaining a modern all-IP network, and does that analysis 
have implications for high-cost universal service programs? Are there 
national security implications from ongoing sourcing of second-hand TDM 
equipment from potentially unsecure supply chains, and how should the 
Commission evaluate the benefits of transitioning toward an all-IP 
world? Are there other security benefits to an all-IP world, or ending 
legacy protocols such as SS7, that would benefit consumers? 
Specifically, how should the Commission account for the potential 
benefits of faster adoption of IP-based NG911 and improved 
implementation of STIR/SHAKEN for the reduction robocalls? Would any 
state and local laws and regulations undermine these benefits? What 
kinds of new technologies or services might emerge, and how should the 
Commission measure the resulting benefits? In addition to enhanced 
services, do commenters expect carriers to pass along cost savings to 
customers in the form of reduced prices? What other parties may benefit 
from our forbearance from incumbent LEC's additional interconnection 
obligations, and in what ways? We seek quantifications of any expected 
benefits.
    Costs. We recognize that there may be potential costs resulting 
from forbearance from incumbent LECs' specific section 251(c) 
interconnection obligations, including the potential to strand 
customers where service may no longer be practicable for carriers. 
Additionally, we acknowledge that forbearance from our collocation 
requirements for incumbent LECs may impose costs on competitive LECs 
that previously were borne by the former. These costs may include 
incurring both capital and operating expenditures. We seek comment on 
the extent of these costs and any others that may result from the 
elimination of our additional interconnection rules for incumbent LECs, 
including for competitive and rural providers and their customers. 
Could forbearance have a negative impact on competition? We also seek 
comment on whether there any technical or policy issues the Commission 
should be aware of that could arise as carriers transition from TDM to 
IP as a result of our proposals. For example, for carriers that have 
not fully converted to IP calling, would there be a need to convert 
their existing TDM traffic to IP? What would the burdens of such 
conversion be? What are the costs and burdens imposed on other carriers 
by those that have not converted their traffic to IP? What costs would 
be associated with any potential regulatory framework for IP 
interconnection? What costs might this order place on emergency 
services that currently continue to rely on TDM circuits for critical 
applications? In particular, we seek comment on the potential costs to 
small and rural carriers and their customers. We also seek analysis 
that includes quantification of these risks.

II. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

    As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as amended 
(RFA) the Federal Communications Commission (Commission) has prepared 
this Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the policies and 
rules proposed in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) assessing 
the possible significant economic impact on a substantial number of 
small entities. The Commission requests written public comments on this 
IRFA. Comments must be identified as responses to the IRFA and must be 
filed by the deadlines for comments specified on the first page of the 
NPRM. The Commission will send a copy of the NPRM, including this IRFA, 
to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration 
(SBA). In addition, the NPRM and IRFA (or summaries thereof) will be 
published in the Federal Register.

A. Need for, and Objectives of, the Proposed Rules

    The NPRM seeks to accelerate the transition of our Nation's 
communications networks to all[hyphen]internet Protocol (IP) technology 
by examining our incumbent local exchange carrier (LEC)-specific 
interconnection requirements. Changes in the communications marketplace 
have altered how providers deliver services to consumers. To reduce 
regulatory burdens that hinder providers from investing in and 
deploying next-generation networks, the NPRM seeks comment on the 
current state of time division multiplexing (TDM) and IP 
interconnection for voice services, and on the costs to 
telecommunications carriers of complying with sections 251(c)(2) and 
(c)(6) of the of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the Act), 
and the Commission's rules implementing those provisions, and their 
impact on the IP transition. The NPRM proposes to forbear from 
incumbent LEC-specific interconnection and related obligations in 
sections 251(c)(2) and (c)(6), and to eliminate the Commission's rules 
implementing those provisions, by December 31, 2028. The NPRM also 
seeks comment on whether forbearing from sections 251(c)(2) and (c)(6) 
would require updating other Commission rules or statutory frameworks. 
The NPRM seeks comment on whether and how the Commission should modify 
its regulatory framework for interconnection to account for IP voice 
services, and on the scope of the Commission's authority to regulate IP 
interconnection under any such framework. The NPRM further seeks 
comment on the benefits of forbearing from the Commission's specific 
interconnection obligations for incumbent LECs and on any potential 
regulatory framework for IP interconnection. Finally, the NPRM seeks 
comment on the potential costs that may result from the elimination of 
the Commission's additional interconnection rules for incumbent LECs, 
including the costs to small and rural carriers and their customers.

B. Legal Basis

    The proposed action is authorized pursuant to sections 1-4, 201, 
251(a), 251(c)(2), 251(c)(6) of the Communications Act of 1934, as 
amended, 47 U.S.C. 151-54, 201, 251(a), 251(c)(2), 251(c)(6).

C. Description and Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which 
the Proposed Rules Will Apply

    The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of and, where 
feasible, an estimate of the number of small entities that may be 
affected by the proposed rules, if adopted. The RFA generally

[[Page 54280]]

defines the term ``small entity'' as having the same meaning as the 
terms ``small business,'' ``small organization,'' and ``small 
governmental jurisdiction.'' In addition, the term ``small business'' 
has the same meaning as the term ``small business concern'' under the 
Small Business Act.'' A ``small business concern'' is one which: (1) is 
independently owned and operated; (2) is not dominant in its field of 
operation; and (3) satisfies any additional criteria established by the 
SBA. The SBA establishes small business size standards that agencies 
are required to use when promulgating regulations relating to small 
businesses; agencies may establish alternative size standards for use 
in such programs, but must consult and obtain approval from SBA before 
doing so.
    Our actions, over time, may affect small entities that are not 
easily categorized at present. We therefore describe three broad groups 
of small entities that could be directly affected by our actions. In 
general, a small business is an independent business having fewer than 
500 employees. These types of small businesses represent 99.9% of all 
businesses in the United States, which translates to 34.75 million 
businesses. Next, ``small organizations'' are not-for-profit 
enterprises that are independently owned and operated and not dominant 
their field. While we do not have data regarding the number of non-
profits that meet that criteria, over 99 percent of nonprofits have 
fewer than 500 employees. Finally, ``small governmental jurisdictions'' 
are defined as cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school 
districts, or special districts with populations of less than fifty 
thousand. Based on the 2022 U.S. Census of Governments data, we 
estimate that at least 48,724 out of 90,835 local government 
jurisdictions have a population of less than 50,000.
    The rules proposed in the NPRM will apply to small entities in the 
industries identified in the chart below by their six-digit North 
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes and corresponding 
SBA size standard.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Regulated industry (NAICS                       SBA size                                      Percentage small
       classification)          NAICS code        standard       Total firms     Small firms   firms in industry
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wired Telecommunications              517111  1,500 employees           3,054           2,964              97.05
 Carriers.
Wireless Telecommunications           517112  1,500 employees           2,893           2,837              98.06
 Carriers (except Satellite).
All Other Telecommunications          517810  $40 million....           1,079           1,039              96.29
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Based on currently available U.S. Census data regarding the 
estimated number of small firms in each identified industry, we 
conclude that the proposed rules will impact a substantial number of 
small entities. Where available, we also provide additional information 
regarding the number of potentially affected entities in the above 
identified industries.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        2024 Universal service monitoring report                    SBA size standard (1500 employees)
  telecommunications service provider data (data as of  --------------------------------------------------------
                     December 2023)
--------------------------------------------------------  Total number FCC     Small firms       Percent small
                    Affected entity                       Form 499A filers                          entities
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Competitive Local Exchange Carriers (CLECs)............              3,729              3,576              95.90
Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (Incumbent LECs).....              1,175                917              78.04
Interexchange Carriers (IXCs)..........................                113                 95              84.07
Local Exchange Carriers (LECs).........................              4,904              4,493              91.62
Operator Service Providers (OSPs)......................                 22                 22                100
Other Toll Carriers....................................                 74                 71              95.95
Wired Telecommunications Carriers......................              4,682              4,276              91.33
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)                585                498              85.13
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

D. Description of Economic Impact and Projected Reporting, 
Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements for Small Entities

    The RFA directs agencies to describe the economic impact of 
proposed rules on small entities, as well as projected reporting, 
recordkeeping and other compliance requirements, including an estimate 
of the classes of small entities which will be subject to the 
requirements and the type of professional skills necessary for 
preparation of the report or record.
    The NPRM seeks comment on proposals that, if adopted, we expect 
will reduce reporting, recordkeeping, and other compliance 
requirements, as small and other carriers would then be subject to 
fewer regulatory burdens. In the NPRM, we first propose to end 
incumbent LECs' interconnection obligations under section 251(c)(2) and 
(c)(6) of the Act, as well as our rules implementing those provisions 
on December 31, 2028. We propose to forbear, as of the sunset date, 
from section 251(c)(2) of the Act, partially forbear from section 
251(c)(6) of the Act, and eliminate our rules implementing those 
statutory provisions, by which incumbent LECs would no longer be 
required to meet additional interconnection obligations or provide 
collocation of interconnection equipment. The NPRM seeks comment on the 
costs and benefits of these proposals, or of commercial or other 
arrangements, needed for providers that may require additional time to 
transition to IP technology, and whether small carriers face specific 
challenges resulting from eliminating interconnection requirements, 
such as needing to lease third-party networks or services to 
interconnect in IP. For example, through comments received in response 
to the NPRM, we seek to ascertain the potential cost of forbearance to 
small and rural competitive LECs from our collocation requirements 
previously borne by incumbent LECs. We then seek comment on whether 
forbearing from sections 251(c)(2) and (c)(6) would require updating 
other Commission rules that might be rendered obsolete or

[[Page 54281]]

redundant by the elimination of incumbent LECs' interconnection 
obligations. The NPRM also seeks comment on whether the Commission 
should establish a regulatory framework for IP-to-IP interconnection 
for voice traffic and what such a framework would look like, and any 
related costs and benefits for small carriers.
    We expect that the proposals in the NPRM will decrease regulatory 
burdens on small and other carriers, and also free up resources for use 
in development and deployment of next-generation networks. This would 
reduce costs and technical complexity associated with maintaining 
parallel TDM and IP-based networks, and reduce reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements associated with legacy networks, such as the 
requirement to file notices of network change. While we do not 
anticipate that these carriers will need to hire professionals to 
comply with the proposals herein, we request comments specific to any 
potential burdens or costs small entities may incur in connection with 
these requirements.

E. Discussion of Significant Alternatives Considered That Minimize the 
Significant Economic Impact on Small Entities

    The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of any 
significant alternatives to the proposed rules that would accomplish 
the stated objectives of applicable statutes, and minimize any 
significant economic impact on small entities. The discussion is 
required to include alternatives such as: ``(1) the establishment of 
differing compliance or reporting requirements or timetables that take 
into account the resources available to small entities; (2) the 
clarification, consolidation, or simplification of compliance and 
reporting requirements under the rule for such small entities; (3) the 
use of performance rather than design standards; and (4) an exemption 
from coverage of the rule, or any part thereof, for such small 
entities.''
    The NPRM seeks comment on proposals and alternatives that we expect 
will positively impact small entities. We propose to eliminate the 
obligation under section 251(c)(2) of the Act that incumbent LECs 
provide direct interconnection upon request on December 31, 2028. This 
proposal reflects the ongoing transition to IP-based network 
architecture and the declining relevance of legacy TDM interconnection 
in an environment increasingly dominated by packet-switched 
technologies. In addition, the NPRM seeks comment on other factors that 
may determine the feasibility of the December 31, 2028 sunset date and 
any alternative benchmarks that should be met by small and other 
carriers in the interim. We seek comment on whether removing this 
requirement would eliminate unnecessary operational burdens and allow 
carriers, including small entities, to redirect resources away from 
maintaining outdated switching and signaling infrastructure and toward 
investment in modern, efficient, all-IP networks. Small entities may 
benefit if the Commission adopts proposed rules or other alternatives 
that facilitate the retirement of legacy equipment and the streamlining 
of interconnection arrangements through modern, IP-based alternatives. 
We seek comment on whether any of the burdens associated with 
alternatives that alter current filing, recordkeeping, and reporting 
requirements described in the NPRM can be further minimized to lessen 
economic impact on small entities.
    The Commission will fully consider the economic impact on small 
entities as it evaluates the comments filed in response to the NPRM, 
including comments related to costs and benefits. Alternative proposals 
and approaches from commenters will further develop the record and 
could help the Commission further minimize the economic impact on small 
entities. The Commission's evaluation of the comments filed in this 
proceeding will shape the final conclusions it reaches, the final 
alternatives it considers, and the actions it ultimately takes to 
minimize any significant economic impact that may occur on small 
entities from the final rules.

F. Federal Rules That May Duplicate, Overlap, or Conflict With the 
Proposed Rules

    None.

III. Ordering Clauses

    Accordingly, it is ordered that pursuant to sections 1-4, 201, 
251(a), 251(c)(2), 251(c)(6) of the Communications Act of 1934, as 
amended, 47 U.S.C. 151-54, 201, 251(a), 251(c)(2), 251(c)(6) the Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking hereby is adopted.
    It is further ordered that, pursuant to applicable procedures set 
forth in Sec. Sec.  1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's rules, 47 CFR 
1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments on this Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking on or before 30 days after publication in the 
Federal Register, and reply comments on or before 60 days after 
publication in the Federal Register.
    It is further ordered that, the Commission's Office of the 
Secretary, shall send a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 
including the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, to the Chief 
Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration.

List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 51

    Communications, Communications common carriers, Telecommunications, 
Telephone, Federal Communications Commission.

Marlene Dortch,
Secretary.

Proposed Rules

    For the reasons discussed in the preamble, the Federal 
Communications Commission proposes to amend 47 CFR part 51 as follows:

PART 51--INTERCONNECTION

0
1. The authority for part 51 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  47 U.S.C. 151-55, 201-05, 207-09, 218, 225-27, 251-
52, 271, 332 unless otherwise noted.


Sec.  51.305  [Removed]

0
2. Remove Sec.  51.305.


Sec.  51.321  [Removed]

0
3. Remove Sec.  51.321.


Sec.  51.323  [Removed]

0
4. Remove Sec.  51.323.

[FR Doc. 2025-21324 Filed 11-25-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6712-01-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>