<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 224 (Monday, November 24, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 224 (Monday, November 24, 2025)]
[Notices]
[Pages 52956-52957]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-20787]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

[Document Identifiers: CMS-10934, CMS-10906 and CMS-10164]


Agency Information Collection Activities: Proposed Collection; 
Comment Request

AGENCY: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Health and Human 
Services (HHS).

ACTION: Notice.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is 
announcing an opportunity for the public to comment on CMS' intention 
to collect information from the public. Under the Paperwork Reduction 
Act of 1995 (PRA), federal agencies are required to publish notice in 
the Federal Register concerning each proposed collection of information 
(including each proposed extension or reinstatement of an existing 
collection of information) and to allow 60 days for public comment on 
the proposed action. Interested persons are invited to send comments 
regarding our burden estimates or any other aspect of this collection 
of information, including the necessity and utility of the proposed 
information collection for the proper performance of the agency's 
functions, the accuracy of the estimated burden, ways to enhance the 
quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected, and 
the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of 
information technology to minimize the information collection burden.

DATES: Comments must be received by January 23, 2026.

ADDRESSES: When commenting, please reference the document identifier or 
OMB control number. To be assured consideration, comments and 
recommendations must be submitted in any one of the following ways:
    1. Electronically. You may send your comments electronically to 
<a href="http://www.regulations.gov">http://www.regulations.gov</a>. Follow the instructions for ``Comment or 
Submission'' or ``More Search Options'' to find the information 
collection document(s) that are accepting comments.
    2. By regular mail. You may mail written comments to the following 
address: CMS, Office of Strategic Operations and Regulatory Affairs, 
Division of Regulations Development, Attention: Document Identifier: 
__/OMB Control Number: __, Room C4-26-05, 7500 Security Boulevard, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850.
    To obtain copies of a supporting statement and any related forms 
for the proposed collection(s) summarized in this notice, please access 
the CMS PRA website by copying and pasting the following web address 
into your web browser: <a href="https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Legislation/PaperworkReductionActof1995/PRA-Listing">https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Legislation/PaperworkReductionActof1995/PRA-Listing</a>.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William N. Parham at (410) 786-4669.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Contents

    This notice sets out a summary of the use and burden associated 
with the following information collections. More detailed information 
can be found in each collection's supporting statement and associated 
materials (see ADDRESSES).
    Under the PRA (44 U.S.C. 3501-3520), federal agencies must obtain 
approval from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for each 
collection of information they conduct or sponsor. The term 
``collection of information'' is defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(3) and 5 CFR 
1320.3(c) and includes agency requests or requirements that members of 
the public submit reports, keep records, or provide information to a 
third party. Section 3506(c)(2)(A) of the PRA requires federal agencies 
to publish a 60-day notice in the Federal Register concerning each 
proposed collection of information, including each proposed extension 
or reinstatement of an existing collection of information, before 
submitting the collection to OMB for approval. To comply with this 
requirement, CMS is publishing this notice.

[[Page 52957]]

Information Collections

    1. Type of Information Collection Request: New collection (Request 
for a new OMB control number); Title of Information Collection: 13th 
SOW Quality Innovation Network--Quality Improvement Organization (QIN-
QIO) and American Indian Alaskan Native (AIAN) Measure Data Collection; 
Use: The Quality Innovation Network--Quality Improvement Organization 
(QIN-QIO) program and American Indian Alaskan Native (AIAN) program 
assists providers/practices with high-quality, hands-on quality 
improvement assistance toward meeting their needs, and the healthcare 
quality and safety goals for beneficiaries. The purpose of this new 
information collection within these programs is to quantify performance 
and improvement in a broad set of quality measures that are not 
currently available from other sources. Selected measures are derived 
from the Merit Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS), the Hospital 
Inpatient Quality Reporting Program (HIQR), the Hospital Outpatient 
Quality Reporting Program (HOQR), and the CDC National Healthcare 
Safety Network (NHSN).
    Measure data collection is an integral part of the quality 
improvement process. It is the primary source of knowledge about 
quality of care, allowing Quality Improvement (QI) practitioners to 
understand current state and quantitatively measure progress and 
effectiveness. There are three primary user categories for this data 
collection:
    <bullet> Participants in the QIO program will use measure data from 
their facilities/practices to implement their own quality improvement 
efforts, and benefit from the collection and analysis of data from 
other facilities and practices to contextualize progress towards QI 
goals.
    <bullet> QI contractors (both QIOs and the AIAN contractor) will 
use measure data to direct their efforts and understand the 
effectiveness of interventions, to measure progress towards their 
contractual objectives, and to report on progress to CMS.
    <bullet> CMS will use the collected measure data along with derived 
analytic products to track the success of the program, to inform 
strategic decisions and priorities, and to calculate return on 
investment.
    Form Number: CMS-10934 (OMB control number: 0938-NEW); Frequency: 
Quarterly; Affected Public: Private Sector--Business or other for-
profits and Not-for-profit institutions; Number of Respondents: 16,735; 
Total Annual Responses: 66,940; Total Annual Hours: 1,471,284. (For 
policy questions regarding this collection contact Geoffrey Berryman at 
(410) 786-8766.)
    2. Type of Information Collection Request: New collection (Request 
for a new OMB control number); Title of Information Collection: 
Provider Directory Data for Medicare Plan Finder; Use: Medicare Plan 
Finder (MPF) is an online tool where current and prospective 
beneficiaries can explore their Medicare coverage options. On MPF, 
individuals can shop for Medicare coverage options and make choices 
based on a variety of search criteria, such as plan benefits, premiums, 
deductibles, and star ratings. Previously, MPF had not included search 
capability or information on MA organizations' contracted provider 
networks.
    To simplify and streamline the Medicare beneficiary shopping 
experience, CMS is expanding the existing requirements applicable to MA 
organizations regarding their provider directories that requires MA 
organizations to: (1) make the information described in 42 CFR 
422.111(b)(3)(i) available to CMS/HHS for publication online in 
accordance with guidance from CMS/HHS; (2) submit or otherwise make 
available their plan provider directory data, that is the requirements 
found under Sec.  422.111(b)(3)(i), available to CMS/HHS in a format, 
manner, and timeframe determined by CMS/HHS; (3) update the information 
subject to Sec.  422.111(m) within 30 days of the date an MA 
organization becomes aware of a change; and (4) attest, in a format and 
manner and at times determined by CMS/HHS, that all information 
submitted or otherwise made available to CMS/HHS under paragraph (m) is 
accurate. Form Number: CMS-10906 (OMB 0938-TBD); Frequency: Once and 
yearly; Affected Public: Private sector; Number of Respondents: 700; 
Total Annual Responses: 1,400; Total Annual Hours: 6,300. (For 
questions regarding this collection contact Jim Canavan at 410-786-
5223.)
    3. Type of Information Collection Request: Revision; Title of 
Information Collection: CMS Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) 
Enrollment Registration, CMS EDI Enrollment Form, and CMS EDI 
Enrollment Attestation Form; Use: The collection consists of three 
forms used by Medicare providers and suppliers to register for EDI 
services with Medicare contractors. The updated collection includes the 
revised CMS EDI Registration Form (10164A) and CMS EDI Enrollment 
Agreement Form (10164B), both serving as model forms. The collection 
also introduces the CMS EDI Enrollment Attestation Form (10164C), a new 
mandatory attestation form requiring formal compliance verification 
from all participating entities.
    The forms collect essential information necessary to identify 
Medicare providers and suppliers during electronic transactions, 
authorize requested EDI functions, and establish appropriate access 
privileges for healthcare entities. These forms ensure compliance with 
HIPAA transaction standards while implementing strengthened security 
requirements for billing vendors and clearing houses that handle 
Medicare data. The information collected by the forms will be uploaded 
into Medicare contractor computer systems. Medicare contractors will 
store this information in a database accessed at the time of provider 
connection to the Medicare Data Contractor Network (MDCN). When 
authentication is successful and connectivity is established, 
transactions may be exchanged. Form Number: CMS-10164 (OMB 0938-0983); 
Frequency: Yearly; Affected Public: Business or other-for-profits and 
not-for-profits; Number of Respondents: 229,767; Total Annual 
Responses: 229,767; Total Annual Hours: 153,178. (For questions 
regarding this collection contact Charlene Parks at 410-786-8684.)

William N. Parham, III
Director, Division of Information Collections and Regulatory Impacts, 
Office of Strategic Operations and Regulatory Affairs.
[FR Doc. 2025-20787 Filed 11-21-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4120-01-P


</pre></body>
</html>