<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 226 (Wednesday, November 26, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 226 (Wednesday, November 26, 2025)]
[Proposed Rules]
[Pages 54248-54266]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-21325]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

47 CFR Parts 1, 15, and 90

[GN Docket No. 13-111; FCC 25-65; FR ID 318554]


Promoting Technological Solutions To Combat Contraband Wireless 
Device Use in Correctional Facilities

AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission.

ACTION: Proposed rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In this document, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC 
or Commission) seeks comment on proposals that would enhance public 
safety by removing regulatory barriers to the deployment and viability 
of existing and developing technologies that combat contraband wireless 
device use in correctional facilities. This document seeks comment on a 
proposed framework to authorize, for the first time, non-federal 
operation of radio frequency (RF) jamming solutions in correctional 
facilities. The Commission seeks to foster a collaborative environment 
among key stakeholders, including departments of correction, solutions 
providers, wireless providers, public safety and 911 entities, to 
explore an expanded range of solutions to a shared problem.

DATES: Interested parties may file comments on or before December 26, 
2025; and reply comments on or before January 12, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Pursuant to Sec. Sec.  1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's 
rules, 47 CFR 1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments and 
reply comments on or

[[Page 54249]]

before the dates indicated on the first page of this document. Comments 
may be filed using the Commission's Electronic Comment Filing System 
(ECFS). You may submit comments, identified by GN Docket No. 13-111, by 
any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Electronic Filers: Comments may be filed electronically 
using the internet by accessing the ECFS: <a href="https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs/">https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs/</a>.
    <bullet> Paper Filers: Parties who choose to file by paper must 
file an original and one copy of each filing.
    <bullet> Filings can be sent by hand or messenger delivery, by 
commercial courier, or by the U.S. Postal Service. All filings must be 
addressed to the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission.
    <bullet> Hand-delivered or messenger-delivered paper filings for 
the Commission's Secretary are accepted between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 
by the FCC's mailing contractor at 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis 
Junction, MD 20701. All hand deliveries must be held together with 
rubber bands or fasteners. Any envelopes and boxes must be disposed of 
before entering the building.
    <bullet> Commercial courier deliveries (any deliveries not by the 
U.S. Postal Service) must be sent to 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis 
Junction, MD 20701. Filings sent by U.S. Postal Service First-Class 
Mail, Priority Mail, and Priority Mail Express must be sent to 45 L 
Street NE, Washington, DC 20554.
    <bullet> People with Disabilities: To request materials in 
accessible formats for people with disabilities (braille, large print, 
electronic files, audio format), send an email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#a4c2c7c7919490e4c2c7c78ac3cbd2"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="b5d3d6d6808581f5d3d6d69bd2dac3">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or 
call the Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau at 202-418-0530 
(voice), 202-418-0432 (TTY).

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For additional information on this 
proceeding, contact <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#adcec2c0cfccd9cec2c3d9dfcccfccc3c9edcbcece83cac2db"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="32515d5f505346515d5c46405350535c56725451511c555d44">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Third 
Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Third FNPRM) in GN Docket No. 
13-111; FCC 25-65, adopted and released on September 30, 2025. The full 
text of this document is available for public inspection online at 
<a href="https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-25-65A1.pdf">https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-25-65A1.pdf</a>.
    Paperwork Reduction Act. This document may contain potential new or 
revised information collection requirements. If the Commission adopts 
any new or modified information collection requirements, they will be 
submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under 
section 3507(d) of the PRA. OMB, the general public, and other federal 
agencies are invited to comment on the new or modified information 
collection requirements contained in this proceeding. In addition, 
pursuant to the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, the 
Commission seeks specific comment on how it might ``further reduce the 
information collection burden for small business concerns with fewer 
than 25 employees.''
    Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act: The Providing 
Accountability Through Transparency Act, Public Law 118-9, requires 
each agency, in providing notice of a rulemaking, to post online a 
brief plain language summary of the proposed rule. The required summary 
of this Third Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is available at 
<a href="https://www.fcc.gov/proposed-rulemakings">https://www.fcc.gov/proposed-rulemakings</a>.
    Ex Parte Status: The proceeding this Third FNPRM initiates shall be 
treated as a ``permit-but-disclose'' proceeding in accordance with the 
Commission's ex parte rules. Persons making ex parte presentations must 
file a copy of any written presentation or a memorandum summarizing any 
oral presentation within two business days after the presentation 
(unless a different deadline applicable to the Sunshine period 
applies). Persons making oral ex parte presentations are reminded that 
memoranda summarizing the presentation must (1) list all persons 
attending or otherwise participating in the meeting at which the ex 
parte presentation was made, and (2) summarize all data presented and 
arguments made during the presentation. If the presentation consisted 
in whole or in part of the presentation of data or arguments already 
reflected in the presenter's written comments, memoranda or other 
filings in the proceeding, the presenter may provide citations to such 
data or arguments in his or her prior comments, memoranda, or other 
filings (specifying the relevant page and/or paragraph numbers where 
such data or arguments can be found) in lieu of summarizing them in the 
memorandum. Documents shown or given to Commission staff during ex 
parte meetings are deemed to be written ex parte presentations and must 
be filed consistent with Sec.  1.1206(b). In proceedings governed by 
Sec.  1.49(f) or for which the Commission has made available a method 
of electronic filing, written ex parte presentations and memoranda 
summarizing oral ex parte presentations, and all attachments thereto, 
must be filed through the electronic comment filing system available 
for that proceeding, and must be filed in their native format (e.g., 
.doc, .xml, .ppt, searchable .pdf). Participants in this proceeding 
should familiarize themselves with the Commission's ex parte rules.

Synopsis

    1. In this Third FNPRM, the Commission proposes to deauthorize, for 
purposes of FCC licensing, subscriber operation of contraband wireless 
devices and leverage its existing leasing process as a preferred 
approach to licensing jamming solutions, thereby providing correctional 
officials with additional methods to address a demonstrable public 
safety threat. The Commission also proposes and seeks comment on 
restrictions that might prove necessary to ensure that jamming 
solutions are limited to this targeted use, and to mitigate the risk 
that these solutions are deployed in contexts other than a correctional 
facility environment.

A. Definition of Jamming Solution

    2. The Commission proposes to define the term ``jamming solution'' 
as ``the deployment of RF transmitter(s) within a correctional facility 
to prevent contraband wireless devices from establishing or maintaining 
a connection with a network.'' This definition is solely applicable in 
the context of combatting contraband wireless devices in correctional 
facilities and incorporates the concept that such a solution disrupts a 
network connection on affected spectrum bands in a specific geographic 
area. We seek comment on this proposed definition and any alternatives 
that commenters believe will further this proceeding's goals. To 
provide clarity for stakeholders regarding both proposed licensing 
frameworks, i.e. leasing and overlay licensing, we propose to 
incorporate a definition of a ``jamming solution'': (1) as another type 
of contraband interdiction system (CIS) where appropriate to facilitate 
leasing arrangements, with certain special provisions solely applicable 
to jamming solutions where warranted; and (2) to authorize overlay 
licensees to provide such a solution where certain eligibility criteria 
are met.

B. Deauthorizing Subscriber Operation of Contraband Wireless Devices

    3. The Commission proposes to address the prohibition in section 
333 of the Communications Act by deauthorizing subscriber operation of 
contraband wireless devices located within a correctional facility. 
Specifically, the Commission proposes

[[Page 54250]]

to amend its rules and the rights granted under licenses issued, such 
that operations in this specific context would not be authorized by the 
Commission within the meaning of section 333. This approach would allow 
departments of correction (DOCs) to employ jamming solutions, or other 
similar technologies, without violating section 333, and would provide 
an additional tool to prevent criminal activity stemming from 
unauthorized communications within and to those outside a correctional 
facility.

1. Subscriber Authority Rule

    4. Under current Commission rules, wireless providers may legally 
transmit RF signals within the boundaries of their geographic area 
license, including areas within those boundaries where a correctional 
facility may be located. Subscribers operating devices in connection 
with those licensed services are authorized under that same wireless 
provider license pursuant to the Commission's rules. We propose a key 
change to the authorization status, as it relates to Commission 
licensing, of subscribers operating contraband wireless devices on 
commercial wireless networks in correctional facilities, which will 
enable the Commission to authorize jamming solutions in a narrow 
context in compliance with section 333 of the Act.
    5. As a threshold matter, the Commission proposes to amend Sec.  
1.903(c) of its rules to create an exception regarding subscriber 
operation of a ``contraband wireless device.'' Specifically, the 
proposal is to amend the rule to make clear that subscriber contraband 
wireless device operation of any fixed or mobile station in the 
Wireless Radio Services (WRS) is not authorized by the Commission. As 
such operation would not be considered to be licensed or authorized by 
or under the Act, there is no statutory protection against willful or 
malicious interference by other technologies, such as jamming 
solutions, that would be licensed under our proposed process. This 
proposal is referred to as the ``deauthorization rule'' or 
``deauthorization approach.'' We tentatively conclude that we have the 
authority to propose this approach pursuant to section 303 of the Act, 
which provides the Commission with expansive powers and duties to make 
rules governing wireless operations that are required by the public 
convenience, interest, or necessity. We seek comment on this tentative 
conclusion, and on our deauthorization approach more generally.
    6. The Commission proposes to apply the deauthorization rule to 
subscriber operation of a contraband wireless device that is used 
within a correctional facility in violation of federal, state, or local 
law, or a correctional facility rule, regulation, or policy, and seeks 
comment on this approach. This expansive approach is consistent with 
the Commission's definition of ``contraband wireless device'' as 
applied in our current CIS leasing context. We note, however, that when 
adopting the framework permitting DOC officials with an approved CIS to 
request that wireless providers disable contraband wireless devices, we 
took a narrower view of ``contraband wireless devices'' and limited 
disabling of such devices to those ``used in violation of state or 
federal criminal statutes.'' We seek comment on whether to apply to our 
deauthorization rule the more restrictive approach taken in the CIS 
disabling context.
    7. We propose to apply the deauthorization rule to subscriber 
operations of contraband wireless devices used in ``correctional 
facilities,'' as defined in its existing CIS leasing context. Section 
1.9003 defines correctional facility as ``any facility operated or 
overseen by federal, state, or local authorities that houses or holds 
criminally charged or convicted inmates for any period of time, 
including privately owned and operated correctional facilities that 
operate through contracts with federal, state or local jurisdictions.'' 
We recognize, however, that the proposed deauthorization rule would 
apply broadly to contraband wireless devices located in correctional 
facilities that include local facilities, e.g., city or county jails, 
often located next to, or relatively near, other government facilities 
(e.g., a city hall, courthouse, etc.) or residential areas. This 
proximity presents an increased risk of interference to authorized 
devices if a jamming solution is not properly engineered, deployed, and 
maintained. We seek comment on whether it is necessary to restrict the 
application of our deauthorization rule and subsequent authorization of 
jamming solutions to a particular type(s) of correctional facility. In 
this regard, we also seek comment on the extent to which contraband 
devices are used in local facilities, and whether local municipalities 
are seeking these particular RF solutions that require extensive 
technical expertise to engineer and require associated costs to install 
and maintain. Where are states more likely to invest in carefully 
deployed, properly engineered and maintained jamming solutions? Should 
the Commission consider the security level of the correctional facility 
(e.g., minimum, medium, maximum), or the average length of time of 
inmate incarceration, in this analysis? Commenters advocating for a 
restriction should consider our goal of reaching those facilities where 
contraband wireless device use is a serious public safety threat, and 
should also address the argument that a properly engineered and 
maintained jamming solution is substantially less likely to cause 
harmful interference to authorized users, notwithstanding the proximity 
issue.

2. Section 316 License Modification

    8. Section 316 of the Act states that ``any station license or 
construction permit may be modified by the Commission . . . if in the 
judgment of the Commission such action will promote the public 
interest, convenience and necessity.'' We propose a rule change to 
deauthorize certain operations that would be promulgated pursuant to 
the Commission's rulemaking authority consistent with the 
Administrative Procedure Act. As additional legal support for this 
approach, we also propose, pursuant to section 316 of the Act, to 
modify any and all licenses affected by the proposed rule change, if 
adopted and made effective, that would eliminate authority for WRS 
subscribers to operate contraband wireless devices in correctional 
facilities. We believe that this proposed modification is within our 
authority under the Act, is in the public interest and, given that its 
scope is limited to deauthorizing subscriber operation of contraband 
wireless devices in correctional facilities, does not result in a 
fundamental change to any underlying wireless provider license. We seek 
comment on this proposal.

3. Safe Harbor to Proposed Deauthorization Rule

    9. The proposed deauthorization rule would make subscriber 
operation of any contraband wireless device in a correctional facility 
a violation of section 301 of the Act and proposed revised Sec.  
1.903(c) of the Commission's rules. Recognizing that wireless providers 
might also be liable for continuing to authenticate and provide service 
to such devices following deauthorization, we propose to create a safe 
harbor, to the extent necessary, for wireless providers that engage in 
good faith negotiations with DOCs that are actively seeking an RF 
solution to this issue, including a jamming solution.
    10. Specifically, we propose a ``safe harbor'' wherein the 
Commission would

[[Page 54251]]

not take enforcement action against a wireless provider arguably in 
violation of section 301 of the Act for unauthorized operation on its 
network of contraband wireless devices in a correctional facility under 
the following circumstances. First, the safe harbor would apply to a 
wireless provider licensed in a geographic area where no DOC is 
actively seeking to implement an RF solution, including jamming, to 
combat contraband wireless device use. Second, the proposed safe harbor 
would apply to a wireless provider where it actively participates in 
good faith negotiations (or has successfully completed such 
negotiations) with the DOC/solutions provider that is seeking to lease 
spectrum to authorize operation of a CIS, including a jamming solution.
    11. We clarify that, under our proposal, where a party actively 
seeks authority as lessee for a jamming solution to combat contraband 
wireless devices and negotiates in good faith, but a wireless provider 
fails to negotiate in good faith, the wireless provider would not be 
eligible for the proposed safe harbor. We also clarify that a wireless 
provider would not qualify for a safe harbor if it responds to a DOC/
solutions provider request for a jamming solution by indicating that it 
is only willing to lease spectrum for a managed access system (MAS) or 
detection system deployment. The Commission seeks comment on this 
proposal, including whether a wireless provider should be eligible for 
the proposed safe harbor in the absence of a good faith lease 
arrangement, but where it can demonstrate that a DOC's jamming solution 
poses an unreasonable risk of interference to authorized subscribers or 
otherwise is not technically feasible as sought to be deployed. We also 
seek comment on whether to extend the proposed safe harbor to future 
instances where a wireless provider actively facilitates the 
implementation, at a DOC/solutions provider's request, of an 
alternative technological solution, such as geolocation or beacon 
technology in the applicable correctional facility.
    12. We believe our proposal to establish a safe harbor will address 
any potential wireless industry concerns about liability for 
deauthorized operations, while also encouraging wireless providers to 
work with correctional facilities to combat the problem of contraband 
wireless device use. We seek comment on this proposal and on whether 
there are additional liability concerns regarding potential 
unauthorized transmissions in violation of section 301 and proposed 
revised Sec.  1.903(c) of the Commission's rules. Commenters should 
specifically describe instances where they believe a wireless provider 
should be further shielded from enforcement action, including the costs 
and benefits of such an approach. Also, we are not aware of any 
instance where a wireless provider directly owned and installed base 
stations within a correctional facility to effectively block signals 
from its macro-network pursuant to a contract with a DOC. We seek 
comment on the prospect of wireless providers engaging directly with 
DOCs to install transmitters for the purpose of effectuating a jamming 
solution. Should the Commission expand the scope of a prospective safe 
harbor to include instances where a wireless provider elects to 
directly employ a jamming solution in a correctional facility through a 
contract with a DOC?

C. Facilitating the Authorization of Jamming Solutions Under Section 
301

1. Authorization of Jamming Solutions

a. Spectrum Leasing
    13. The Commission proposes to authorize jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities by substantially leveraging its existing 
leasing regime used for CIS deployment in correctional facilities. We 
seek comment on a proposed definition of ``jamming solution'' to 
distinguish it, where relevant, from other CISs. Importantly, however, 
we also propose to amend our current definition of CIS by: (1) 
incorporating jamming solutions as a type of CIS for purposes of 
administrative efficiency and to achieve regulatory harmony across 
technologies where feasible and appropriate; and (2) refining the CIS 
definition to better describe current CISs that have the capability of 
preventing contraband wireless devices from ultimately connecting to a 
wireless provider network, while also distinguishing between contraband 
and non-contraband wireless devices in the area of CIS operation (e.g., 
MAS).
    14. Leasing Arrangement Framework and Types of Leases. Our goal is 
to leverage our existing leasing rules used for CIS deployment as much 
as possible to reduce regulatory burdens. We therefore seek comment on 
the extent to which the part 1 rules require amendment to effectuate 
authorization through lease arrangements of transmitters operating on 
wireless provider licensed spectrum to deploy jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities. Is it necessary to revise any other existing 
leasing rules or add new rules to effectuate the authorization of 
jamming solutions in correctional facilities?
    15. Included Services. We seek comment on the applicability of the 
bands currently set forth in our part 1 leasing rules as ``included 
services,'' and therefore eligible for leasing, to the deployment of 
jamming solutions through lease arrangements. We seek to ensure that 
our approach to authorizing leasing arrangements for jamming solutions 
in correctional facilities does not inadvertently fail to include a 
relevant band deployed in commercial networks, thus creating a 
technical loophole for inmates to potentially exploit. Accordingly, we 
seek comment on whether additional bands beyond the recognized included 
services should be part of our proposed framework. We also seek comment 
on whether a particular band or service currently specified as an 
included service should be excluded from a jamming solutions leasing 
framework and, if so, through what rationale.
    16. Although our focus is removing barriers to jamming solutions 
that would necessarily be deployed on WRS bands commonly used in 
commercial networks, we also seek comment on whether there are bands 
not typically included in current CIS leasing arrangements that 
commenters believe should nonetheless be considered in authorizing 
jamming solutions. For example, should the Commission include any 
Mobile Satellite Service (MSS) or Fixed Satellite Service (FSS) 
satellite bands that are authorized under part 25? Is there evidence 
that those bands, or any other bands not listed in our part 1 leasing 
rules as ``included services,'' are currently used in serving 
contraband wireless devices and therefore present an issue for DOCs? We 
ask that commenters supporting inclusion of other bands for jamming 
solutions through leasing arrangements indicate which bands the 
Commission should consider as included services, and whether there is a 
regulatory bar that must be overcome, address any associated costs, and 
describe in detail the need for the operation of jamming technology in 
these bands in correctional facilities. We also ask commenters to 
consider the international treaty implications of permitting jamming 
solutions in satellite bands, specifically the potential for harmful 
interference to any foreign spacecraft that may cover the United 
States.
    17. Eligibility Criteria. We find it in the public interest to 
propose eligibility criteria for those seeking authorization to deploy 
jamming solutions as a lessee under part 1 of our rules. We believe 
that proposing strict eligibility restrictions is vital to ensure that 
use of

[[Page 54252]]

jamming solutions is on a limited scale for a very specific public 
safety purpose. We also seek comment on whether, in the interest of 
maintaining technological neutrality and harmonizing procedures across 
CISs, we should require the eligibility criteria set forth below for 
all CIS leases.
    18. We propose that an entity will be eligible for authorization to 
engage in jamming solutions through a leasing arrangement if it is: (1) 
a DOC with authority over the correctional facility for which the lease 
is sought; or (2) a solutions provider that has entered into a contract 
with a DOC with authority over the correctional facility for which the 
lease is sought. We also propose that the applicant is required to 
provide a certification as an attachment to the FCC Form 608 stating 
that the applicant: (1) is eligible for authorization to engage in 
jamming solutions; and (2) seeks to deploy equipment that has a valid 
part 2 equipment authorization, as discussed below. Should we require, 
as a condition of the lease, that the lessee must deploy the specific 
equipment in its jamming solution that it certified in its attachment 
has a valid part 2 equipment authorization, without substitution or 
modification? Should we require that entities seeking authority to 
operate transmitters as part of a jamming solution provide proof of the 
contractual arrangement with the correctional facility by, for example, 
including a copy of the contract with any lease filing? Would it be in 
the public interest to require disclosure of any particular lease terms 
to the Commission in the application process, subject to any 
appropriate protections sought for proprietary information under 
current rules?
    19. We seek comment on whether to expressly include wireless 
provider licensees as entities eligible to provide jamming solutions 
through lease arrangements, which in certain circumstances might 
include the need to lease spectrum from another wireless provider in 
the limited geographic area of a correctional facility to achieve a 
comprehensive spectrum solution. Are wireless providers interested in, 
independent of leasing to DOCs/solutions providers, directly 
participating in resolving this public safety issue by entering into a 
contract with a DOC for the purpose of operating a jamming system 
within a correctional facility? To the extent wireless provider 
licensees seek to operate transmitters that provide jamming solutions, 
we seek comment on whether such licensees should be subject to the same 
or similar requirements proposed herein for DOCs and solutions 
providers that provide jamming solutions.
    20. We also seek comment on whether we should consider, as an 
eligibility criterion, a geographical component regarding the location 
of a correctional facility. For example, should we first take a 
measured approach, perhaps limiting eligibility for authorization of 
jamming solutions to DOCs/solutions providers seeking jamming solutions 
in correctional facilities located in rural areas? Would excluding from 
a lease authorization structure arrangements with DOCs/solutions 
providers seeking solutions for more densely-populated areas reduce the 
potential for harmful interference to authorized devices, given the 
challenges presented in managing RF technologies in certain 
environments? Are DOCs primarily interested in jamming solutions for 
rural facilities, or do they seek to deploy in urban/suburban areas as 
well? Should DOCs/solutions providers first be required to demonstrate 
that a proposed solution can be sufficiently targeted so as to not 
impact authorized users, particularly in a less rural environment? What 
are the costs and benefits of taking an incremental approach? If we 
were to initially limit eligibility for authorization of jamming 
technology to rural correctional facilities, how should it define 
``rural,'' given that the Commission has defined this term in different 
ways depending on context. If we were to limit eligibility to deploy 
jamming solutions based on geographic considerations, how should we 
treat suburban areas? To what extent would authorizing jamming 
solutions in non-rural areas be problematic, or are DOCs/solutions 
providers committed to properly engineering, maintaining, and updating 
the network as necessary to avoid causing harmful interference to non-
contraband devices located either within or outside the correctional 
facility located in such areas?
    21. Good Faith Negotiations. We propose to adopt a good faith 
negotiation rule--akin to current Sec.  20.23(a) of the Commission's 
rules--that would require wireless providers to engage in good faith 
lease negotiations with eligible entities seeking to deploy a jamming 
solution in a correctional facility. To ensure wireless provider 
cooperation, we proposes to require a wireless provider to engage in 
good faith negotiations with a DOC, or with a solutions provider that 
has executed a contract with a DOC, that seeks Commission authorization 
to deploy a jamming solution in a correctional facility via a leasing 
arrangement. If, after a 45-day period, there is no good faith 
agreement, the DOC/solutions provider may apply for a non-exclusive 
overlay license, as discussed below. Because wireless providers that 
fail to negotiate in good faith toward a leasing arrangement would not 
be eligible for our proposed safe harbor, the Commission potentially 
could take enforcement action for possible unauthorized operation of 
contraband wireless devices in a correctional facility in violation of 
section 301 of the Act and our proposed amended rule Sec.  1.903(c). 
Although below we propose to provide an overlay license fallback 
approach to leasing arrangements, we recognize that there may be 
instances where stakeholders fail to reach a lease agreement due to the 
bad faith of either party. To provide proper incentives for 
stakeholders on either side of a transaction, we propose that DOCs and 
their contracted solutions providers also are subject to a good faith 
negotiation requirement to discourage sham negotiations undertaken to 
avoid the Commission-preferred leasing process in favor of directly 
seeking what we clearly intend as a fallback overlay authorization.
    22. We seek comment on this proposal and whether we should revise 
our approach. Are there additional distinguishing factors in play with 
respect to negotiating leases for the deployment of jamming solutions, 
thus necessitating a negotiation period lengthier than 45 days? We seek 
comment on whether and how we should specifically define ``good faith 
negotiations'' or elaborate on relevant factors to be considered in 
making the determination. Are the same factors relevant for lease 
negotiations to operate base station transmitters as part of a jamming 
solution? If not, we ask commenters to propose factors for possible 
incorporation into a Commission rule. Stakeholders should specifically 
address the questions above, as well as provide comments on the costs 
and benefits of the proposed approach and any alternatives.
    23. Technical Rules. To provide flexibility for stakeholders and 
maintain consistency with current CIS leasing approach, we propose to 
apply to jamming solutions in correctional facilities our current 
secondary markets approach to compliance with technical rules. 
Accordingly, an entity seeking to deploy a jamming solution in a 
correctional facility would enter into a part 1 leasing arrangement(s) 
with a wireless provider to operate on the provider's licensed 
frequencies. Under existing leasing rules, a lessee would be subject to 
the same technical limits as the lessor, as set forth in band-specific 
radio service rules (e.g., complying with

[[Page 54253]]

power limits and out-of-band emission limits to protect adjacent band 
licensees). A DOC or solutions provider seeking to use a jamming 
solution would therefore be required to comply with a variety of, and 
possibly differing, technical rules that are set forth under various 
parts of the Commission's rules governing spectrum typically used in 
commercial wireless networks, including, for example, parts 22, 24, 27, 
30, and 96.
    24. As in the current CIS leasing context, we generally believe 
that parties to a lease arrangement are best positioned to agree on 
technical details that not only comply with the technical limits of 
various applicable radio service rule parts, but that address the 
potential for harmful interference to a lessor's licensed operations 
from the lessee's operations limited to a particular correctional 
facility. We seek comment on whether the introduction of jamming 
solutions, even when authorized through leasing arrangements negotiated 
at arms-length, requires a stricter regulatory framework from a 
technical perspective than its current maximum levels set forth across 
various service rules to best ensure that authorized wireless devices 
are not subjected to harmful interference. We request that commenters 
provide detailed analysis in support of any proposed alternative 
technical parameters. If such rules are needed, what are appropriate 
technical parameters to govern jamming deployments through leasing in a 
correctional facility environment? Should we establish more restrictive 
technical limits for jamming solutions than those established for 
wireless provider commercial operations in flexible use bands? Should 
we require a DOC or solutions provider lessee to use narrowly tailored 
means to achieve the goal of combatting contraband wireless device use, 
which will vary from a technical perspective, depending on the 
particular correctional facility? For example, should we prohibit use 
of a jamming solution across an entire 5G band(s), some with bandwidths 
as large as 100 megahertz, where a jamming solution could be targeted 
on the control channel portion of a band? We seek comment on how to 
implement a narrowly tailored jamming solution, while balancing the 
cost tradeoffs associated with deploying an effective solution that 
does not cause harmful interference to authorized users.
    25. Further, we seek comment on how DOCs, as the primary advocates 
for additional tools to combat contraband wireless device use, intend 
to deploy jamming solutions to avoid harmful interference to wireless 
provider networks in a manner that accounts for differences in how 
commercial wireless networks are deployed, for example, the use of time 
division duplexing (TDD) versus frequency division duplexing (FDD). 
Should we require those seeking to deploy jamming solutions to adjust 
their technical parameters based on the specific technology the 
wireless providers use to provide a signal that covers a correctional 
facility? To what extent should we adopt technical rules applicable to 
jamming solutions that distinguish between the potential for harmful 
interference in bands using FDD versus those using TDD? Or, in a 
leasing scenario, should any such distinctions be addressed solely 
through leasing arrangements and the underlying contractual agreements 
between wireless providers and solutions providers? Are specific 
measures needed to prevent harmful interference to a wireless 
provider's base stations in a TDD context, for example taking into 
consideration the desired v. undesired signal levels in a TDD pattern? 
Should we require, in a TDD context, synchronization between a 
solutions provider deploying a jamming solution and the wireless 
provider offering service to an area that includes a correctional 
facility to avoid unwanted transmissions during the wireless provider's 
base station transmit timeslot? Are different considerations raised 
where a jamming solution is deployed in bands using FDD and seeks to 
cause interference to the contraband wireless device's ability to 
receive a base station's downlink transmissions?
    26. To minimize the risk of harmful interference to authorized 
users, should we set specific limits on: radiated power (e.g., limiting 
transmitter output power to 1-watt or 5-watt maximum) or power spectral 
density per band, out-of-band emission (OOBE) limits, field strength 
limit at a correctional facility boundary, power flux density (PFD) 
limit measured at a certain point from a transmitter, and/or Signal to 
Interference Noise Ratio (SINR) at the boundary of proposed jamming 
operations? Are more stringent restrictions required, in particular PFD 
or OOBE limits, in order to protect authorized operations outside of 
the boundary of the leased service area and users of immediately 
adjacent or nearby frequency bands? If so, what are the appropriate 
limits? If we impose more restrictive limits, would the efficacy of the 
jamming solution be compromised? Would providers of jamming solutions 
find it necessary to internalize a guard band to comply with our 
technical rules? Would adopting stricter limitations on transmitter 
power levels in an effort to help prevent harmful interference to 
authorized users, potentially resulting in a substantial increase in 
the number of transmitters required to be deployed, drive up the cost 
of deploying and maintaining a jamming solution? Conversely, if DOCs/
solutions providers seek to deploy a jamming solution that operates 
band-wide with multiple licensees within a band, are there any current 
technical rules or policies in any of the included services that might 
hinder operation of a jamming solution across the band that might 
require revision? Should any of our technical rules be more permissive 
to foster an effective jamming solution in the limited context of 
correctional facilities?
    27. We seek comment on whether technical parameters should vary 
depending on various factors including, but not limited to: whether the 
deployment is in a rural, suburban, or urban location; the size of the 
correctional facility and the topography of the surrounding area; the 
materials used in constructing the facility; and the proximity of 
wireless provider networks in the area, including the proximity of 
wireless provider service to residential/office locations, highways, 
and the corresponding strength of those RF signals entering the 
correctional facility. We also seek comment on how to adequately 
protect public safety communications from harmful interference 
potentially caused by jamming solutions. Are there appropriate 
technical measures, including filters, that could protect first 
responder communications near correctional facilities that deploy a 
jamming solution? What agreements should be in place to prevent 
interference to public safety communications? In addition, we seek 
comment on whether additional measures would need to be in place to 
protect first responder and priority communications using commercial 
wireless spectrum, such as FirstNet, Verizon's Frontline, and T-
Mobile's T-Priority. Are there other spectrum bands that support public 
safety communications that might require specific protection against 
potential harmful interference from jamming solutions?
    28. We also seek comment on the potential effect of jamming 
solutions on the public's ability to receive Wireless Emergency Alerts 
(WEA), which federal, state, Tribal, territorial, and local officials 
rely on to send critical notifications concerning emergencies. Could 
the use of jamming solutions by

[[Page 54254]]

correctional officials prevent the wireless providers that participate 
in WEA (Participating CMS Providers) from delivering WEAs in or near 
facilities employing jamming solutions? Would this result in 
Participating CMS Providers being unable to comply with the 
Commission's WEA rules, including its geographic accuracy requirements? 
Do emergency managers have concerns that the use of jamming solutions 
would put the public at risk? If the use of jamming solutions did 
prevent the delivery of WEAs, what effect could this have on the safety 
of correctional officials, prisoners, and other individuals during 
emergencies?
    29. Solutions Providers with Existing Lease Arrangements for CIS 
Operation. We seek comment on whether we should permit solutions 
providers with existing CIS leases that seek authority for jamming 
operations to file a lease modification application, rather than file a 
new FCC Form 608 for a spectrum manager or de facto transfer leasing 
arrangement. If so, what information or certification should we require 
to be filed with the modification application to support the lessee's 
eligibility to engage in jamming operations? We ask commenters to 
discuss the pros and cons of this approach, and to provide any other 
proposals on ways in which an existing leasing arrangement could be 
modified to reflect authorization of a newly proposed jamming solution.
    30. Immediate Approval Procedures. We also seek comment on whether 
leases for the operation of jamming systems, consistent with our 
approach to CISs, should be subject to the Commission's immediate 
approval procedures. We seek to seek to harmonize its CIS leasing rules 
to accommodate jamming solutions within the framework where feasible. 
As its proposed revised definition of CIS in the leasing rules would 
include jamming solutions, qualifying leases for jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities would be subject to immediate processing and 
approval. We seek comment on whether this is the appropriate approach 
for these types of lease applications. We also seek comment on whether 
there is a compelling reason to exclude leasing arrangements for 
jamming solutions from immediate processing procedures. Commenters 
supporting such an exclusion are requested to provide details regarding 
why an application for lease of spectrum for deployment of a jamming 
solution, if otherwise complete and meeting the Commission's 
requirements, would necessitate lengthier Commission review than that 
of current CIS lease arrangements subject to expedited processing.
    31. Regulatory Status. We believe that a Private Mobile Radio 
Service (PMRS) presumption is most applicable to eligible DOCs/
solutions provider entities seeking to deploy jamming solutions, which 
we understand are not intended to provide a service that meets the 
Commercial Mobile Radio Service (CMRS) definition. We therefore seek 
comment on applying the PMRS presumption to all spectrum leasing 
arrangements entered into for the provision of jamming solutions, 
unless the lessee includes an exhibit to its lease application 
indicating that it is CMRS for regulatory status purposes, thereby 
aligning the treatment of regulatory status for jamming solutions with 
other CIS operations, e.g., MAS and detection systems.
    32. 911-Related Leasing Rules. We seek comment on the possible 
effects on wireless emergency/911 calls and public safety 
communications of the deployment of jamming solutions in correctional 
facilities. Our understanding is that jamming solutions block calls on 
all affected frequencies and, unlike MAS, are unable to allow 911 calls 
to be transmitted to a PSAP. We seek comment on whether it is in fact 
technically infeasible for the operator of any type of jamming solution 
to satisfy, under any circumstances, the 911-related requirements in 
part 1 and Sec.  9.10 of the Commission's rules. Commenters citing a 
technical inability to comply with these rules should describe which 
particular requirements are not feasible and why. We ask that 
commenters provide details regarding any scenario where a jamming 
system, including any type of system under development, could be 
deployed in a correctional facility in a way that permits the 
transmission of 911 calls to a PSAP.
    33. We seek comment from stakeholders on how emergency calls from 
wireless devices are addressed today in a correctional facility 
environment. We are aware that some state DOC officials have indicated 
that correctional facilities typically do not allow any calls from 
within, including emergency calls. In contrast, we seek comment as to 
how 911 calls are routed today if made from an authorized phone that 
might be used, for example, by counsel during visitation or by a vendor 
serving the premises that requires emergency services. Are such calls 
routed to a local PSAP or to internal DOC personnel, including perhaps 
internal DOC firefighting and/or medical personnel? Are such calls 
handled differently if made from an inmate using a contraband wireless 
device? To what extent have PSAPs opted to not receive calls from 
correctional facilities regardless of whether the source of the call is 
authorized by the correctional facility?
    34. Based on the record in this proceeding, including our 
assumption that current jamming solutions are not capable of permitting 
impacted calls to reach a PSAP, we seek comment on the prospect of not 
applying the Commission's 911 and E911 rules to entities that have 
entered into leasing arrangements for the provision of jamming 
solutions in correctional facilities, if ultimately regulated as PMRS, 
whether it be a DOC directly or through its contracted solutions 
provider. To the extent jamming solutions are included in the proposed 
revised definition of CIS, we seek comment on whether it is necessary 
to modify existing leasing rules related to the provision of 911 
service in the context of CIS leasing. Finally, we seek comment on how 
to treat a CMRS wireless provider, for 911 regulatory purposes, that 
opts to deploy base stations as part of a jamming solution, if the 
developing record indicates wireless provider interest in participating 
at that direct level to address this public safety issue. If so, what 
rule revisions are necessary to reflect the apparent technical 
limitations of jamming solutions, if deployed directly by wireless 
providers, with respect to passage of 911 calls to PSAP?
    35. Interference-Related Leasing Rules. We seek comment on leasing 
rules and the issue of potential interference to non-contraband, 
authorized devices within a correctional facility and/or interference 
to authorized devices outside of the correctional facility perimeter. 
We seek comment on whether to retain the existing hierarchy of 
responsibility in the context of a proposed framework that would 
authorize jamming solutions in correctional facilities. Does our 
proposal to permit jamming solutions in such a limited context warrant 
revisions to Commission rules relating to interference resolution? In 
the case of a spectrum manager lease under the proposed jamming 
authorization framework, is it practical and appropriate for direct 
responsibility and accountability to apply to the licensee/lessor, 
where unwanted harmful interference would likely be to the licensee/
lessor's authorized subscribers? Commenters seeking a rule revision are 
requested to address how this risk differs from that currently existing 
with deployment of transmitters for MAS and

[[Page 54255]]

detection systems. Should we specify in the jamming solutions context 
that the lessee is primarily responsible for interference resolution 
caused by its jamming operations?
    36. Community Notification. We seek comment on whether we should 
apply the current CIS community notification requirement to deployments 
of jamming solutions, to the extent that jamming solutions are proposed 
to be included within a revised definition of CIS for purposes of part 
1 leasing arrangements. We also seek comment on whether the existing 
notification requirement has been effective in contributing to 
corrective action by DOCs in cases, if any, where users outside of the 
correctional facility were negatively impacted. Conversely, are there 
relevant DOC security reasons for not mandating such a notification 
requirement, or perhaps eliminating the current notification 
requirement applicable to CIS? Is it in the public interest to continue 
to require inherently sensitive information regarding the status of CIS 
deployments, specifically focused on preventing contraband wireless 
device use, to be made publicly available, where inmates potentially 
are able to obtain real-time updated deployment information on a per-
facility basis nationwide?
    37. Notification to Solutions Providers of Wireless Provider 
Technical Changes. We seek comment on applying to wireless providers 
the advance notification rule applicable to wireless providers and MAS 
lessees to assist jamming system operators in maintaining the 
effectiveness of jamming solutions deployed in a correctional facility. 
What are the costs and benefits of applying our current notification 
structure to jamming solutions? Are there differences in the operation 
of MAS compared to jamming solutions that would necessitate amendments 
to our current advance notification criteria?
    38. Length of Lease. We seek comment on whether to apply the 
current part 1 lease term requirements to leasing arrangements for 
jamming solutions. Although we seek to provide regulatory flexibility 
where feasible, we seek comment on whether a revised approach is 
warranted here, given the contractual collaboration between solutions 
providers implementing jamming solutions and DOCs. For example, should 
we amend our rules to specify that the length of the lease for the 
provision of jamming services may only be as long as the length of the 
contractual arrangement with the applicable DOC, with possible 
extensions? What are the costs and benefits of such a restriction? 
Should we strengthen our approach to CISs generally and revise current 
rules to take this approach for MAS and detection systems?
    39. Subleasing. In the proposed framework, an eligible entity--
whether a lessee DOC or lessee solutions provider under contract--would 
be implementing jamming solutions to combat contraband device use in a 
specific correctional facility. Under this framework, we believe that 
the ability to sublease to a third party would raise practical and 
technical issues, particularly with respect to system security, 
oversight of operations, and increased risk of harmful interference. 
Accordingly, we propose to not allow subleasing under the proposed 
jamming framework and seek comment on this proposal and on whether we 
should clarify in our rules that subleasing is not permitted for any 
CIS in the interest of harmonizing our leasing rules across 
technologies.
    40. Construction Attribution. Due to the nature of jamming 
solutions deployed to prevent ``service'' in a limited public safety-
related circumstance, we propose to not allow a licensee/lessor(s) to 
rely on its lessee(s) deployment of a jamming solution for purposes of 
satisfying the performance requirements of the underlying license. We 
seek comment on this proposal, and whether we should clarify in our 
rules that such construction attribution is not permitted for any CIS.
    41. ECIP Holding Period Exception. In July 2022, the Commission 
established the Enhanced Competition Incentive Program (ECIP), which 
among other things, modified the Commission's leasing rules to provide 
incentives for stakeholders to engage in qualifying transactions that 
make spectrum available in rural areas for advanced wireless services. 
In this regard, the Commission adopted several measures to protect the 
integrity of ECIP, including a five-year holding period during which 
licensees cannot further partition, disaggregate, assign, or lease 
licenses assigned through ECIP. The Commission, however, adopted an 
exception to the holding period for lease arrangements involving CIS 
providers, deeming CIS deployment in correctional facilities as vital 
to public safety. Because leasing arrangements entered into for the 
provision of jamming solutions would likewise promote public safety, we 
propose to apply the exception to the ECIP holding period for lease 
arrangements involving providers of jamming solutions in correctional 
facilities. We seek comment on this proposal.
b. Non-Exclusive Overlay Licensing
    42. We propose, as a method of last resort, an authorization path 
for jamming solutions in correctional facilities available only when 
parties fail to reach a leasing arrangement negotiated in good faith. 
In such cases, we propose to permit eligible entities to directly apply 
for an overlay license, provided certain conditions are met, to 
increase flexibility for jamming solutions in correctional facilities 
and to incentivize market-based solutions in the first instance. We 
believe that an overlay construct is an appropriate mechanism for 
authorizing jamming solutions where DOCs/solutions providers seek lease 
arrangements in good faith, but the wireless provider is unwilling to 
enter into the leasing arrangement on a good faith basis.
    43. Statutory Authority and Mutual Exclusivity. Consistent with the 
proposed deauthorization rule, we believe that a non-exclusive overlay 
licensing approach complies with section 333 of the Act, as the overlay 
licensee would be licensed to transmit under section 301 of the Act and 
would be permitted to cause interference to the operations of 
subscribers using contraband wireless devices that are no longer 
authorized under the wireless provider's license. We also believe that 
a non-exclusive, eligibility-based licensing approach is consistent 
with its statutory authority under section 309(j) of the Act. We seek 
comment on an overlay licensing approach that would not result in 
receipt of mutually exclusive applications requiring resolution through 
competitive bidding. Under the proposal, absent a good faith leasing 
arrangement, DOCs/solutions providers would be eligible to receive an 
overlay license to operate on the identical spectrum used in that 
geographic area by the relevant wireless provider, effectively 
resulting in spectrum sharing. We therefore propose, pursuant to 
section 316 of the Act, to modify any and all licenses affected by 
overlay licensing for jamming solutions, if adopted and made effective, 
which would eliminate the wireless providers' exclusive use rights to 
their licensed spectrum in certain limited geographic areas. We seek 
comment on this proposed modification as applied in the overlay 
licensing construct.
    44. In addition, we seek comment on an approach that would permit 
more than one applicant to serve a given correctional facility, at a 
DOC's option, which also results in spectrum sharing in the defined 
geographic area and the

[[Page 54256]]

absence of mutual exclusivity. We seek comment on implementing an 
approach whereby applications for new overlay licenses would be placed 
in a processing ``queue'' and would be reviewed and processed in the 
order in which they are filed.
    45. Overlay Licensing Through Part 90. Currently, wireless 
providers that provide service across several spectrum bands to 
contraband wireless devices in correctional facilities are regulated 
through service and technical rules set forth in a number of rule 
parts, for example, parts 22, 24, 27, 30, 90, and 96. Providers of 
jamming solutions must necessarily transmit on bands used to provide 
commercial wireless service to counteract contraband wireless device 
use in correctional facilities. For administrative ease, we propose to 
adopt a new, standalone subpart within part 90 of the Commission's 
rules to address the use of overlay licenses for jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities, and we seek comment on this proposal. We 
propose to define ``jamming solution'' in a new part 90 subpart in the 
same way as proposed in the leasing rules, and we seek comment on 
whether there is any reason not to mirror, for overlay licensing 
purposes, the language ultimately adopted in the leasing construct.
(i) Overlay Licensing and Operating Rules
    46. Eligibility Restrictions. To effectuate an overlay licensing 
framework, we propose to limit eligibility to apply for an overlay 
license to DOCs with authority over the correctional facility for which 
authority to operate a jamming solution is sought and solutions 
providers that have entered into a contract with a DOC with authority 
over the correctional facility for which authority to operate a jamming 
solution is sought. We also propose that, to be eligible to seek an 
overlay license for a jamming solution: (1) the entity must have 
attempted to negotiate a lease arrangement with the relevant wireless 
provider in good faith; and (2) the wireless provider must have acted 
in bad faith during the negotiation process resulting in no lease 
arrangement.
    47. Further, we recognize that there may be a fact-specific 
circumstance where a mix of Commission authorization vehicles for 
jamming solutions may be necessary. For example, a solutions provider 
may be able to negotiate lease arrangements with two wireless providers 
for a given correctional facility, but unable to reach a good faith 
agreement with a third wireless provider serving that same geographic 
area. In such a case, we believe it is in the public interest to permit 
the solutions provider to apply for an overlay authorization for bands/
specific frequencies at a given correctional facility for which it has 
not reached a good faith leasing arrangement, so as to prevent an 
incomplete spectrum solution in that correctional facility. We seek 
comment generally on these proposed eligibility restrictions, and on 
whether we should consider any other eligibility restrictions and/or 
entry criteria in an overlay licensing model.
    48. Overlay Licensing Bands. We seek comment on whether, in an 
overlay licensing framework, we should limit the authorization of 
jamming solutions to those bands typically used by wireless providers 
to provide commercial service to subscribers, identified as ``included 
services'' in the leasing context. We seek comment on the inclusion of 
each band (or block within a band), currently set forth as an included 
service in its leasing rules, in the proposed overlay license 
framework. We seek comment on whether the authorization of jamming 
operations by issuing non-exclusive overlay licenses in bands currently 
licensed to wireless providers would require an amendment to Sec.  
2.106 of the U.S. Table of Allocations, including potentially the 
addition of a table footnote applicable to relevant bands.
    49. License Area. We seek comment on a licensing model in which the 
overlay license area would be confined to the geographic area affected 
by the proposed subscriber operation deauthorization rule, so as to 
comply with section 333 of the Act. We seek comment on permitting an 
applicant, most likely a solutions provider, to seek authority to 
transmit in a geographic area that is based upon its agreement with a 
DOC, which could involve the entire area within the perimeter of a 
correctional facility or a defined smaller area within the correctional 
facility. We seek comment on the necessary information and level of 
detail that should be provided to the Commission in describing the 
requested license area, for example, the name and address of the 
facility, the exact coordinates of the leased spectrum boundaries, or a 
shapefile reflecting the requested area. We also seek comment on the 
appropriate mechanism by which this information should be provided to 
the Commission.
    50. License Term/Renewal. We seek comment on the appropriate 
license term if we implement our overlay license proposal. Commercial 
wireless provider licensees seek certainty and flexibility in 
implementing their networks and clearly benefit from a 10-year (or in 
some bands a 15-year) term, for administrative certainty and planning 
purposes. We seek comment on whether we should issue an overlay license 
for a shorter period, noting that the Commission has granted shorter 
license terms in other bands as a means to manage and ensure periodic 
reevaluation of possible interference issues. Should the initial 
license term mirror the contractual terms with a DOC for each 
individual facility to ensure the license authorization does not exceed 
the jamming solutions provider's contract with the correctional 
facility? Similarly, we seek comment on the appropriate term to apply 
for any subsequent license renewal.
    51. We also seek comment on how to address compliance with the 
Commission's renewal standard at the end of any license term. We seek 
comment on whether to require overlay licensees for jamming operations 
to make a ``renewal showing'' consistent with the WRS rules, for 
instance, certifying that it is operating consistent with its 
authorization to operate at specific correctional facilities with which 
the licensee continues to have a contract to perform jamming 
operations. We seek comment on the costs and benefits of imposing a 
renewal requirement for these licensees and invite commenters to submit 
alternate proposals for the appropriate license terms and renewal 
showings.
    52. Regulatory Status. We seek comment on applying the PMRS 
presumption--similar to the regulatory status that we seek comment on 
for leasing arrangements--to any overlay licenses issued for the 
provision of jamming operations as discussed herein. Would applying 
this presumption to eligible entities in the overlay license model help 
align with the services to be provided, which are not intended to 
provide CMRS service as defined in the statute and our rules?
    53. Secondary Market Transactions. We seek comment on allowing 
overlay licensees for jamming solutions to engage in secondary market 
transactions only where the licensee is engaging in a transfer of 
control of the licensee, and not permitting assignment, partitioning, 
or disaggregation to another party. We likewise seek comment on not 
permitting overlay licensees to lease the non-exclusively licensed 
spectrum, which is not permitted under current secondary markets rules. 
Are such limitations necessary in the jamming solutions overlay 
context, where different considerations may be relevant, including that 
the request for

[[Page 54257]]

authority would be limited a relatively small service area of a 
correctional facility, and that such authority would be available only 
to entities that meet strict eligibility requirements as a DOC or 
solutions provider following the failure of good faith leasing 
negotiations? Or should we permit alienability conditioned upon the 
assignee, for example, making a showing that it too meets all 
underlying requirements to be an overlay licensee in this specific, 
limited context? Commenters should address the costs and benefits of 
these potential limitations and any alternatives that we should 
consider.
    54. 911 Call Transmission Requirements. We seek comment on whether 
to refrain from applying the Commission's 911 and E911 rules to PMRS 
overlay licensees authorized to provide jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities. We seek comment on whether there are 
considerations in the overlay license context that are different from 
considerations in the leasing context with regard to the treatment of 
911 for jamming operations. We ask stakeholders to discuss whether it 
is technically feasible for a licensee that deploys any type of jamming 
solution to satisfy the requirements in Sec.  9.10 of the Commission's 
rules, and if not, which particular requirements are not feasible and 
why.
    55. Performance Requirements. Due to the nature of jamming 
operations, we believe it unnecessary to impose performance 
requirements on the overlay licensee, and seek comment on this 
proposal. Although we believe that operation through an overlay license 
in satisfaction of a contract with a correctional facility for public 
safety purposes meets our goal of ensuring spectrum usage, we seek 
comment on whether an overlay licensee should be required to meet some 
form of construction obligation.
(ii) Technical Parameters for Overlay Licenses
    56. We seek detailed comment on the specific technical requirements 
that we should apply to an overlay license for jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities. Commenters are requested to provide technical 
details and analysis in support of any recommended action, including an 
evaluation of the impact of their proposals on other radio services. 
Among other issues, these studies and analyses should address how 
entities seeking to deploy jamming solutions plan to protect co- and 
adjacent channel, geographically proximate licensees, and also protect 
out-of-band spectral neighbors from harmful interference. Additionally, 
commenters should compare their recommendations to the technical 
requirements applicable to existing licensees as authorized under the 
pertinent service rules. We seek comment on the challenges and issues 
that stakeholders have experienced when testing or deploying jamming 
technology and welcomes the results of technical studies and analyses.
    57. We also seek comment on how our proposal to authorize jamming 
solutions through an overlay license might impact non-contraband 
devices located within a correctional facility. These include so-called 
``white-listed devices'' approved for use by select correctional 
facility personnel (i.e., administrators, corrections staff, on-
premises vendors, contractors, medical personnel). We seek detailed 
comment as to how correctional facilities and solutions providers with 
which they contract intend to deploy jamming solutions, while limiting 
the impact to only contraband devices within a correctional facility. 
Commenters that propose particular techniques to address this issue 
should also indicate whether their proposal should be incorporated into 
our technical rules and, if so, provide specific requirements.
    58. Power Limits. We seek comment on the appropriate power limits 
that should be applied to jamming operations in correctional facilities 
under an overlay license. We seek comment on whether we should apply 
the power limits applicable to each band in the respective service 
rules or, in the alternative, implement a uniform power limit for 
overlay jamming operations. Is there a way to regulate power limits 
that does not unnecessarily constrain jamming technological 
advancements, while also allowing for successful operations in a manner 
that does not create harmful interference to authorized users in widely 
deployed commercial bands? Should we adopt varying power levels for 
overlay licenses based on bands in operation, as is done for CMRS 
licenses today? Should we permit higher power levels in certain 
geographic areas, such as rural areas, with significantly less power 
available for jamming solutions operating in non-rural areas? Should we 
establish power limits for overlay licensee operation based on the size 
of the correctional facility at issue? Should we apply the power 
spectral density (PSD) model to transmitters deployed as part of a 
jamming solution? What are the costs and benefits of taking this 
approach, which has been implemented to achieve parity amongst varying 
technologies in the commercial services? Commenters advocating for 
higher power should also address how much more power they believe is 
necessary to effectively serve correctional facilities in rural areas, 
and provide comment on how we should define rural areas in this 
specific context.
    59. Further, should we also generally require overlay licensees to 
use narrowly tailored means in implementing a jamming solution, which 
will vary from a technical perspective depending on the particular 
correctional facility? For example, should we prohibit use of jamming 
technology across an entire 5G band(s) where a jamming solution could 
be targeted on the control channel portion of a band, which would 
require less overall radiated power and potentially reduce the risk of 
harmful interference to authorized devices? Should we require licensees 
to adjust their technical parameters contingent on what technology the 
wireless provider is using in the particular correctional facility, for 
example, deployments in FDD or TDD bands?
    60. Field Strength Limit and Market Boundaries. We seek comment on 
whether we should adopt a new, uniform field strength or power flux 
density limit that will apply to jamming overlay licensees, if 
commenters believe that existing field strength limits set forth in the 
Commission's rule parts governing commercial wireless services are not 
sufficient to protect co-channel adjacent market users. We seek comment 
on whether modified or additional technical protections are required, 
as well as the costs and benefits of any alternative approach.
    61. Intermodulation Interference. We seek comment on the likelihood 
of jamming operations causing intermodulation interference and what 
technical solutions, if any, are available to mitigate such 
interference during the design of a jamming solution. We also seek 
comment on what methods could mitigate such interference, should it 
occur after a jamming solution is installed and operating.
    62. Interference Resolution Procedures. We seek comment on whether 
to implement strict responsibility for eliminating harmful interference 
to authorized devices. Should operators utilizing jamming technologies 
be required to respond to every complaint of interference to an 
authorized in-band or adjacent band licensee with full cooperation and 
utmost diligence to abate objectionable interference in the shortest 
practicable time? In addition, we seek comment on the appropriate 
obligations of an

[[Page 54258]]

operator using jamming solutions following receipt of a complaint of 
harmful interference to a non-contraband wireless device. Should such 
an operator be required to immediately shut down all operations until 
it can ensure that the interference issue has been resolved? Would such 
an obligation unintentionally allow inmates or other stakeholders to 
circumvent a jamming solution?
    63. We seek comment on whether we should adopt standardized 
procedures for reporting any such harmful interference and implementing 
a solution. For example, should we require overlay licensees to 
establish some type of common electronic means of receiving initial 
notification of harmful interference complaints from in-band and 
adjacent band licensees? If so, what information should we require in a 
complaint? Should we also impose a response time on the overlay 
licensee? We seek comment on whether we should require overlay 
licensees receiving an initial notification of harmful interference to 
perform a timely analysis and identification of the harmful 
interference, including, whenever necessary, an immediate on-site 
visit. We ask stakeholders to discuss whether we should consider 
alternatives or additions to the interference resolution mechanisms 
discussed.
    64. RF Exposure. We propose to require jamming solutions to comply 
with the RF exposure rules set forth in Sec. Sec.  1.1307, 2.1091, and 
2.1093 of the Commission's rules that outline exposure limits, 
equipment authorization requirements, and other regulatory requirements 
that are based on the type of device, how it is deployed or used, the 
power of its transmissions, and the proximity of its antenna and 
radiating structures to a person's body. Are there additional 
provisions we should implement for transmitters utilizing jamming 
technology? We also seek comment on whether to prohibit any 
transmitters implementing a jamming solution that are designed to be 
deployed where the radiating structure(s) is/are within 20 centimeters 
of the user or other persons, as defined for portable devices in Sec.  
2.1093(b) of the Commission's rules.
    65. Canadian and Mexican Border Coordination. We seek comment on 
whether compliance with existing bilateral agreements is sufficient in 
the context of overlay licensing for jamming solutions, or whether 
additional limits on transmissions are required to prevent harmful 
interference to operations across international borders. If commenters 
believe that additional protections (e.g., stricter limits, larger 
coordination distances, or other technical criteria) are required in 
this regard, we ask for specific technical comments.
    66. Other Technical Requirements and Limitations. We seek comment 
on how other current technical limits for operations in bands commonly 
used to provide commercial wireless service should be applied to 
jamming operations in correctional facilities in an overlay licensing 
framework. For example, should we apply the existing frequency 
stability, duty cycle, synchronization requirements, and other limits 
that apply to CMRS base stations and devices, as set forth in the 
service rules for the respective band of operation, to jamming 
solutions? If existing technical limits are insufficient to protect 
against harmful interference, commenters should offer specific limits, 
with a justification of why those limits are needed and an analysis of 
how they might impact in-band and adjacent band authorized operations 
in the bands under consideration. We also seek comment on the 
applicability to jamming operations of various coordination, 
notification, and other rules currently applicable to 800 MHz cellular 
terrestrial base stations to protect public safety operations.
    67. Other Licensing and Operational Rules. We seek comment on 
whether there are any other relevant service rules that we should 
consider including in an overlay licensing framework for jamming 
solutions. We invite comment on the costs and benefits associated with 
authorizing jamming solutions and ask that commenters provide detailed 
technical and economic data to support their suggestions. We seek 
comment on whether there are other studies, standards, efforts, or 
analyses that we should consider in this proceeding. We also invite 
comment on other possible approaches to authorizing jamming solutions 
in correctional facilities.
(iii) Application Process and Procedures
    68. We propose and seek comment on a multi-step application process 
that includes: (1) submission of an application with supporting 
information demonstrating that the licensee is prepared to deploy an 
effective jamming solution without causing harmful interference to 
authorized devices; (2) Commission review of the application and, where 
in the public interest, an initial grant of a conditional overlay 
license; (3) satisfaction of the condition of the license grant through 
on-site testing; and (4) provision of final Commission authority to 
operate at the facility following successful testing.
    69. As an initial step, we propose that an eligible entity seeking 
an overlay license would be required to submit an FCC Form 601 in ULS 
that provides: administrative information, a certification regarding 
its eligibility, a certification that it seeks to deploy equipment as 
part of a jamming solution with a valid part 2 equipment authorization, 
a brief description of its jamming solution, the requested technical 
parameters, the proposed service area and geographic boundaries of the 
requested license area, and a showing as to how the proposed system 
will not cause harmful interference to authorized devices. We seek 
comment regarding what specific additional information should be 
required to be filed along with the application. Should we require an 
applicant to file an attachment to its FCC Form 601 sufficiently 
demonstrating that it attempted to negotiate in good faith, that the 
wireless provider acted in bad faith during the negotiation process, 
and that as a result, the parties were unable to enter into a lease 
agreement? We seek comment on what would constitute a sufficient 
demonstration of bad faith in the exhibit. Regarding service area, 
should we require that the applicant submit the name and address of the 
facility, the specific services to be provided and frequency bands 
requested, and the service area requested for the overlay license, 
including specific coordinates and/or map? Should the application 
include, as an attachment, a copy of the applicant's contract with the 
DOC to provide jamming services at the particular correctional 
facility? Alternatively, would it be sufficient for the applicant to 
provide a certification that a contract with a DOC exists to provide 
jamming services at the facility? We propose to require an applicant to 
include a declaration consistent with Sec.  1.16 of the Commission's 
rules that its application contains truthful and accurate information. 
Finally, the application would be required to be accompanied by the 
requisite filing fee, and we propose to treat an overlay license 
application for jamming solutions as site-based for application fee 
purposes, given that the area of operation is limited to a specific 
correctional facility (e.g., the perimeter of the facility). We seek 
comment on each of these proposals, including related costs and 
benefits.
    70. Following the initial grant of an overlay license for a jamming 
solution, as a condition of the grant, we propose that a DOC/solutions 
provider perform on-site testing at the correctional facility

[[Page 54259]]

to demonstrate that the system will function as expected and within the 
boundaries of the overlay license service area, protecting authorized 
users both within and outside the boundaries from harmful interference. 
We seek comment on the nature of wireless provider participation in the 
testing and what details the conditional licensee will be required to 
provide the Commission following the testing.
    71. We seek comment on what information conditional licensees must 
provide to the Commission to show successful testing and how such 
information should be provided. Following the filing and Commission 
approval of the on-site test results, we propose that a jamming 
solutions provider would be authorized to begin jamming operations. We 
seek comment on whether, and how often, we should require an overlay 
licensee to re-test the effectiveness of its system, particularly where 
technical or operational details of the deployment change in response 
to wireless provider network adjustments. We seek comment on the costs, 
benefits, and burdens to potential stakeholders of requiring a jamming 
solutions provider to obtain conditional authorization, test, and 
provide test results to the Commission for approval before commencing 
jamming operations, and of potentially requiring the relevant wireless 
providers to be part of the solution through mandatory involvement in 
the on-site testing process, and if so, to what extent.
    72. We seek comment on whether there are alternatives to the 
proposed overlay licensing mechanism that would authorize jamming 
solutions where good faith leasing agreements cannot be reached. 
Commenters should include detailed descriptions of their proposals and 
should discuss the costs and benefits of the approach.

2. Authorizing Jamming Solutions on Other Spectrum

    73. We seek comment on whether contraband devices operating in 
other radio services, such as part 25, or on unlicensed spectrum are a 
substantial issue in correctional facilities and, if so, on the 
appropriate means to authorize jamming solutions to address this issue.
a. Unlicensed Operations Under Part 15
    74. Part 15 Equipment. We seek comment on whether inmate use of Wi-
Fi in a contraband wireless device is a current or anticipated problem 
in correctional facilities and ask stakeholders to specifically 
describe the nature of the problem, if any. Commenters should also 
discuss in detail the types of current or future technologies that are 
available to block, interfere with, or de-authenticate Wi-Fi 
transmissions; how the Commission should facilitate the authorization 
of those technologies; and whether any of these technologies include 
functions that might enable certain Wi-Fi devices to communicate, while 
blocking others located in the same limited geographic area. We also 
seek comment on whether correctional facilities are relying on any 
unlicensed devices essential for facility operation, such as wireless 
security cameras, and how these devices can be protected while jamming 
contraband Wi-Fi devices.
    75. Framework for Deauthorization of Contraband Part 15 Devices and 
Authorizing Part 15 Jamming Solutions. If we determine that jamming 
solutions should be authorized to cause interference to contraband 
wireless devices operating on unlicensed spectrum, such as those that 
communicate using Wi-Fi, we seek comment on the appropriate 
deauthorization approach to permit such action consistent with section 
333 of the Act. We seek comment on whether the definition of a 
contraband wireless device in Sec.  1.9003 of our leasing rules is 
broad enough to cover unlicensed devices, such that a cross-reference 
to the Sec.  1.9003 definition in part 15 is sufficient, or whether we 
would need to replicate this definition within part 15 to ensure that 
it is applicable to unlicensed devices. With respect to deauthorization 
of contraband wireless devices operating on part 15 spectrum, is it 
necessary to adopt a part 15 provision expressly prohibiting the 
operation of such devices under part 15? Alternatively, is a rule 
change unnecessary to comply with section 333 of the Act because part 
15 devices already operate without any protection from interference 
that may be caused by the operation of an authorized radio station? We 
seek comment on these issues.
    76. We seek comment on the appropriate authorization framework for 
jamming solutions using part 15 spectrum. In lieu of leasing, should we 
require an operator of a jamming solution intended to prevent 
unlicensed contraband device use to obtain a part 90 overlay license 
for authorization to operate such equipment? Should such a license be a 
separate part 90 authorization for part 15 spectrum use or should it be 
combined with a more expansive part 90 overlay license that covers a 
mix of licensed bands, as well as the bands most commonly used by 
unlicensed devices? Are there other alternatives available to license 
transmissions for which current operations are authorized on an 
unlicensed basis? Further, should we take an approach analogous to the 
procedures proposed herein for licensed operations, where an entity (if 
acting on behalf of a DOC) seeking such a license would certify that 
it: (1) has entered into a contractual agreement with a DOC that 
requires the solutions provider to block or otherwise deny access to 
unlicensed (e.g., Wi-Fi transmissions); and (2) is proposing to use 
equipment that has part 2 equipment authorization? We seek comment on 
the appropriate licensing requirements for jamming solutions intended 
to prevent unlicensed devices from communicating and to what extent 
amendments are needed to parts 15 and 90.
    77. Some stakeholders have expressed a belief that transmitting 
devices that are fully intended to cause harmful interference could 
arguably operate on commercial bands within the current part 15 rules 
if their power levels are sufficiently low. We propose that the 
Commission will not certify transmitter(s) intended for use as part of 
a jamming solution under part 15 of the rules. Are there other 
safeguards we should put in place to achieve the same result? We seek 
comment on these proposals.
    78. Technical Requirements. Unlicensed operation is permitted under 
part 15 rules in multiple frequency bands. We seek comment on the 
specific bands for which it should authorize jamming solutions for 
unlicensed devices. Should the rules be flexible to permit jamming 
solutions for any band where unlicensed devices can operate, which 
would also include the same bands on which services allocated in the 
frequency allocation table operate, or only the most commonly used 
unlicensed bands? How can the Commission ensure that jamming solutions 
adequately protect unauthorized incumbent users operating on spectrum 
shared with unlicensed operations?
    79. We seek comment on what technical rules should apply to jamming 
solutions that are intended to prevent unlicensed devices from 
communicating. We also seek comment on whether a jamming solution 
operator should comply either fully or in-part with the existing part 
15 rules for each band in which it operates. Or should the technical 
rules for jamming solutions be specific to jamming solutions? We seek 
comment on the specific rules that either should or should not apply in 
each band of interest, as well as relevant interference analyses to 
demonstrate how authorized incumbent users can be protected if a 
jamming solution is

[[Page 54260]]

operating nearby and on the same or adjacent spectrum bands.
    80. We also seek comment on what interference protection 
obligations jamming solutions should have with respect to unlicensed 
device operations that are permitted either within or near a 
correctional facility. We seek comment on whether the general rule 
requiring unlicensed devices to accept interference from authorized 
devices should be amended when such interference is caused by a jamming 
solution and whether, in such instances, the jamming solution operator 
should be obligated to adjust its system to ensure that interference to 
such unlicensed, yet authorized, operations is remedied. We request 
that commenters provide relevant interference analyses supporting the 
co-existence between jamming solutions and non-contraband unlicensed 
devices or justifications for requiring non-contraband unlicensed 
devices to have to accept interference from a jamming solution.
b. Part 25 Spectrum
    81. We seek comment on whether contraband devices that operate 
using part 25 (satellite communications) spectrum is a current or 
anticipated problem in correctional facilities. We ask stakeholders to 
specifically describe the nature of the problem and to discuss in 
detail the types of technologies, whether current or potentially under 
development, that can block or interfere with part 25 authorized 
transmissions. How should the Commission facilitate the authorization 
of those technologies, and do any of these technologies include 
functions that enable network connections for authorized devices that 
might be located in a correctional facility? How can these technologies 
protect other satellite services, including international satellite 
systems, from harmful interference? Finally, if we determine that we 
should deauthorize contraband wireless device satellite communications 
currently authorized under part 25, we seek comment on the appropriate 
approach to authorizing jamming solutions in the relevant bands.

3. Transmitters Used To Enable Jamming Solutions

a. Part 2 Equipment Authorization
    82. We propose to apply our current procedures to eligible entities 
for equipment certification regarding equipment to be used as part of a 
jamming solution in correctional facilities. Specifically, we propose 
to require entities to comply with existing part 2, subpart J, 
equipment authorization procedures for certification of equipment used 
as part of a jamming solution that would be authorized for operation 
pursuant to our part 1 leasing rules, a part 90 overlay license, or a 
combination thereof. This would require that RF equipment associated 
with jamming solutions must be shown to comply with a variety of, and 
possibly differing, technical rules under various parts of the 
Commission's rules governing spectrum typically used in commercial 
wireless networks, including, for example, parts 22, 24, 27, 30, and 
96. Because the equipment could also potentially be used under a part 
90 overlay license, it would necessarily require a part 90 equipment 
certification. Importantly, we propose that the Commission will not 
certify such transmitters under part 15 of the rules to ensure the 
authorization of jamming solutions does not result in the production, 
marketing, and sale of unlicensed low-power, hand-held jamming solution 
devices. We seek comment on this proposal.
    83. We seek comment on whether the application requirements of 
current Commission rule Sec. Sec.  2.911 and 2.1033 are appropriate in 
this case or whether specific requirements should be added, modified, 
or considered inapplicable. We believe that a transmitter used for 
jamming solutions would fall within Sec.  2.1033(e), which applies to a 
``composite system that incorporates devices subject to certification 
under multiple rule parts.'' Commenters should target any proposals 
regarding this rule to the specific issues associated with approving 
jamming solutions and not generally comment on equipment authorization 
procedures that could apply to any device. Further, should the testing 
of equipment used to provide jamming solutions include a method to 
ensure that it does not operate in any unauthorized bands (not just the 
bands adjacent to those for which it seeks authorization)? Finally, we 
propose to include jamming solutions equipment on the ``Pre-approval 
Guidance List,'' thus requiring a TCB to process the application in 
coordination with the Commission in accordance with the Commission's 
rules.
    84. Are any additional procedures necessary to ensure the 
equipment's ability to comply with the Commission's technical rules? We 
seek comment on the costs and benefits of applying existing procedures 
to certifying equipment to transmitters that can be deployed as part of 
a jamming solution in a correctional facility. We also seek comment on 
ways the Commission can facilitate, encourage, or require the 
production of these devices within the United States or United States 
allied countries. Are there specific actions we should take to mitigate 
any national security risks posed by jamming solutions that use 
equipment produced by foreign adversaries or other entities that have 
been determined to pose an unacceptable risk to the national security 
of the United States or the security and safety of United States 
persons?
    85. Operation of Equipment Used for Jamming Solutions Prior to 
Equipment Authorization. We seek comment on whether we should amend 
Sec.  2.805 to specify that jamming solutions may not be operated for 
testing purposes, unless and until equipment authorization is obtained. 
Alternatively, should we adopt more flexible rules to permit testing of 
jamming solutions prior to equipment authorization, but only through 
one of two methods: (1) special temporary authority granted by the 
Bureau; or (2) experimental license granted by OET pursuant to part 5 
of the Commission's rules? What are the costs and benefits of either of 
these approaches or any suggested alternatives?
b. Marketing, Labeling, and Importation of Equipment Used for Jamming 
Solutions
    86. We seek comment on whether we should limit the marketing of 
transmitters intended for use in jamming solutions directly to DOCs and 
solutions providers that contract to provide jamming solutions within a 
correctional facility. If so, what rule changes would be required to 
limit the marketing of transmitters in this way? What are stakeholders' 
concerns, challenges, or cost considerations associated with limiting 
the marketing of transmitters to these entities? Further, should we 
adopt a specific rule in its marketing rules? Such a rule could set 
forth the compliance requirements that apply to the responsible party 
associated with the part 2 equipment certification. If we adopt such a 
rule, should applicants be required to address compliance with the rule 
requirements by including a compliance plan in any certification 
application submitted to a TCB? Should all marketing include clear 
disclosures that such equipment can only be sold to DOC or solutions 
provider lessees or overlay licensees for the provision of jamming 
solutions in correctional facilities? Should specific language be 
required for the disclosure? Should the marketer be required to verify 
and retain documentation that any sale is only to a DOC or solutions 
provider lessee or licensee?

[[Page 54261]]

    87. To ensure compliance with any marketing restriction that we 
might adopt, we seek comment on the need for a number of potential 
requirements the Commission could put on manufacturers dealing with 
tracking jamming equipment, reporting, and rule enforcement. We also 
seek comment on whether labeling requirements are necessary, including 
e-labeling.
    88. In addition, we ask whether we should exclude equipment used to 
provide jamming solutions from exceptions for importing and marketing 
RF devices prior to equipment authorization, or apply significantly 
more restrictive limits, while permitting such pre-equipment 
authorization importation. Alternatively, rather than restricting 
importation, should we require that equipment intended for use in a 
jamming solution be manufactured or assembled in the United States to 
simplify efforts by our federal partners to interdict equipment 
imported into the United States intended for use outside of the 
correctional facility context? Should we restrict distribution of 
equipment intended for use in a jamming solution, such that the 
equipment may only be shipped directly from the manufacturer to a DOC 
or solutions provider lessee or licensee?
    89. We seek comment on whether it is in the public interest to 
require manufacturers to employ some type of locking mechanism, if 
technically feasible, that would prevent any non-eligible entities from 
using such a transmitter outside of the correctional facilities 
context. If so, we seek detailed comment on how to accomplish this 
goal. We seek comment on whether there are other conditions that might 
be appropriate to prevent transmitters authorized for correctional 
facility use from being diverted to uses outside of the intended 
locations and purposes.

4. Other Implementation Issues

    90. Phased Implementation. We seek comment on a phased 
implementation of jamming solutions, such as a pilot program in 
controlled environments, or an initial restriction to, for example, 
facilities located in rural areas that might pose an even lower risk of 
harmful interference. We seek comment on the costs and benefits of 
phased implementation and on whether this would ultimately help reduce 
the risk of harmful interference, or whether it would inhibit 
manufacturers from developing equipment at scale. We also seek comment 
on appropriate parameters for phased implementation. For example, what 
is the optimal duration of any such program to draw accurate and 
valuable conclusions? How should eligible facilities be chosen? Should 
we prioritize facilities with a greater volume of contraband devices? 
Can such a program be limited in a way that allows us to proceed 
cautiously while providing the benefits of representative sampling?
    91. Consumer Complaints. We recognize that the public might benefit 
from specific processes for communicating complaints of harmful 
interference from jamming solutions. Do wireless providers have 
effective contacts at correctional facilities or jamming solutions 
providers that they can work with to resolve issues if they receive 
complaints from the public? Should the Commission require that 
correctional facilities and solutions providers establish and publicize 
a phone number or dedicated email address for complaints from the 
public or that providers can use when an issue arises? Would the 
Commission's existing complaints mechanism adequately enable affected 
persons to file complaints about signal jamming in and around 
correctional facilities? We also seek comment on our authority to serve 
complaints on DOCs and/or jamming solutions providers noting that, 
under our lead proposal, such entities would be operating as lessees on 
spectrum licensed to common carrier wireless providers. How might the 
Commission use complaint data to track challenges, resolution, and any 
consumer issues that might arise from jamming? Is such tracking needed?

D. Facilitating Other Handset-Centric Technologies

    92. We seek comment on whether there are other device-based 
solutions that should be considered for inclusion in the proposed 
deauthorization framework in addition to jamming solutions. In the 
context of the proposed deauthorization framework, we invite commenters 
to refresh the record specifically on the feasibility of geofencing, or 
geolocation-based denial (and if feasible, whether the Commission 
should consider mandating that wireless providers eliminate 
unauthorized devices within correctional facility perimeters), and 
beacon technology, including whether there have been technological, 
economic, or policy developments affecting the deployment of these 
technologies, and whether the Commission can play a role in promoting 
these tools. We seek comment on specific rules that we should amend or 
adopt, if any, to promote the use of these technologies as tools 
available to combat contraband wireless devices in correctional 
facilities.

E. Further Facilitating and Streamlining the Authorization of Current 
CIS Technology

    93. We seek comment to refresh the record on potential steps the 
Commission could take to ensure that MAS maintains effectiveness as 
technology evolve and facilitate MAS deployments. We invite 
stakeholders to refresh the record on the question of whether it should 
make any changes to rules in parts 1 and 20 to further streamline the 
current CIS leasing process. We also seek comment on whether we should 
amend any procedures in Sec.  20.23, in particular, to further 
streamline the CIS Phase 1 and Phase 2 processes or make changes to the 
disabling process.

F. Other Technological Solutions

    94. We seek comment generally on whether there are other 
technologies currently available or under development that could be 
used in correctional facilities to combat contraband devices. If so, 
what steps could the Commission take to facilitate deployment of those 
technologies? We also seek comment on whether there are other studies, 
standards, efforts, or analyses regarding the effectiveness of CISs or 
other related solutions that we should consider in this proceeding.

G. Costs and Benefits

    95. The benefits of the proposed rule amendments include reduced 
criminal activity resulting from inmates' use of contraband wireless 
devices, which can impact the safety of prison officials and employees, 
the prison population, and members of the general public. The costs of 
the proposed rule amendments include the need for considerable 
stakeholder cooperation and a commitment, particularly from DOCs, to 
make the expenditures necessary to ensure that jamming solutions are 
installed, deployed, and maintained in such a manner as to avoid 
harmful interference to non-contraband devices located outside a 
correctional facility, as well as non-contraband devices that might be 
permitted within a particular correctional facility, depending on state 
or local law or policies (e.g., devices used by vendors, attorneys, or 
medical personnel). We seek comment on all costs and benefits 
associated with adopting the proposals, accompanied by specific data 
and analysis supporting claimed costs and benefits.

[[Page 54262]]

Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

    96. The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as amended (RFA), 
requires that an agency prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis for 
notice-and-comment rulemaking proceedings, unless the agency certifies 
that ``the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic 
impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' Accordingly, the 
Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 
(IRFA) concerning potential rule and policy changes contained in this 
Third FNPRM. The IRFA is set forth in Appendix B of the Third FNPRM. 
The Commission invites the general public, in particular small 
businesses, to comment on the IRFA.

A. Need for, and Objectives of, the Proposed Rules

    97. In the Third FNPRM, the Commission aims to strengthen public 
safety through the removal of regulatory barriers to the deployment and 
viability of existing and developing technologies that can assist the 
ability of correctional facilities to stem the use of contraband 
wireless devices in correctional facilities, which can be used to 
engage in criminal activity. The proposals contained in the Third FNPRM 
build upon prior Commission actions and seek to meet our objectives of 
expanding the scope of technical options available to corrections 
officials, while simultaneously fostering a collaborative environment 
among key stakeholders, including DOCs, solutions providers, and 
wireless providers. To achieve these goals, the Commission seeks 
comment on a broad range of potential actions intended to help 
eliminate a continuing public safety threat, reduce regulatory burdens, 
and also continue the growth of currently deployed technologies, 
commonly known as CISs, while ensuring that the Commission's rules 
evolve to afford consistent regulatory treatment across technologies, 
some of which are operated by small entities.
    98. As a first step, the Third FNPRM proposes to deauthorize 
subscriber operation of contraband wireless devices in correctional 
facilities. The proposed deauthorization rule is intended to facilitate 
the use of jamming solutions consistent with section 333 of the Act and 
is a key step towards permitting corrections officials to engage with 
wireless providers to use jamming solutions or other technologies in 
the limited context of combatting contraband wireless devices in 
correctional facilities. The Commission's lead licensing proposal would 
involve the participation of wireless providers, so as to help prevent 
harmful interference to legitimate users, a long-standing wireless 
industry concern.
    99. In addition, the proposed approach ensures that a contraband 
wireless device located in a correctional facility would not be 
considered, for purposes of section 301 of the Act, a ``station 
licensed or authorized by or under [the] Act'' and, therefore, would 
not be afforded protection against willful or malicious interference by 
other technologies, such as jamming solutions, that have been approved 
under our proposed process. The Third FNPRM proposes to apply the 
deauthorization rule to subscriber operation of a contraband wireless 
device that is used in a correctional facility in violation of federal, 
state, or local law, or a correctional facility rule, regulation, or 
policy, consistent with the approach that the Commission took in prior 
decisions to facilitate CISs. The Third FNPRM also seeks comment on 
only applying a jamming solutions approach to a narrower group of 
correctional facilities (e.g., only those located in jurisdictions that 
impose criminal penalties for possessing or using contraband wireless 
devices, or for delivering or attempting to deliver those devices to 
prison inmates).
    100. Recognizing that the proposed deauthorization rule would make 
operation of any contraband wireless device a violation of section 301 
of the Act and revised Sec.  1.903(a) of the Commission's rules, the 
Third FNPRM also proposes to create a ``safe harbor'' wherein the 
Commission would take no enforcement action against a wireless 
provider, to the extent it might be liable, for unauthorized operation 
of contraband wireless devices in a correctional facility if certain 
conditions exist. Specifically, the proposed safe harbor would apply to 
(1) wireless providers licensed in a geographic area where no DOC is 
actively seeking to implement a technology solution, including jamming, 
to combat contraband devices; and (2) any wireless provider that is 
actively participating in good faith negotiations (or has successfully 
completed such negotiations) with the DOC/solutions provider that is 
seeking to lease spectrum to authorize operation of a CIS solution, 
including jamming.
    101. The Third FNPRM also seeks to establish the framework whereby 
correctional facilities or solution providers that contract with them 
can become authorized to deploy an expanded range of technological 
solutions to combat contraband wireless devices. The Commission's lead 
proposal in the Third FNPRM is to authorize jamming solutions in 
correctional facilities by applying its existing secondary markets 
framework. The Commission's goal and expectation is that wireless 
providers will reach agreement with DOCs and solutions providers on 
lease terms for authorized jamming solutions, in the same way that 
parties have, to date, successfully negotiated in good faith for CIS 
deployments. The Third FNPRM seeks comment on, among other things, the 
types of leases parties may wish to utilize, eligibility criteria, 
including whether wireless providers should be required to provide 
jamming technology directly to correctional facilities, and a 
requirement for good faith negotiations.
    102. As a method of last resort, in cases where parties fail to 
reach a good faith leasing arrangement, the Commission proposes to 
permit eligible entities to directly apply for a non-exclusive overlay 
license to deploy a jamming solution in a correctional facility 
provided certain conditions are met. The Third FNPRM seeks comment on a 
variety of issues related to the framework for issuing a last resort 
overlay license, including licensing and operating rules, license term 
and renewal, application procedures, and technical parameters of the 
overlay licenses. The Third FNPRM also seeks comment on other issues 
related to the deployment of jamming solutions. For example, the 
Commission seeks comment on authorizing jamming solutions on Wi-Fi 
spectrum and part 25 satellite spectrum, in order to ensure that that 
the proposed authorization framework is broad enough to include all 
spectrum that may be used to communicate with contraband wireless 
devices.
    103. In addition, the Commission seeks comment on possible measures 
to ensure that jamming solutions are limited solely to correctional 
facilities. For example, the Third FNPRM proposes an express 
prohibition against certifying any transmitter utilizing jamming 
solutions pursuant to part 15 of the Commission's rules and against the 
operation of such equipment under part 15 to ensure that the proposed 
deauthorization framework does not result in low-power, hand-held 
jamming devices being produced, marketed, and sold in the United States 
for use on a part 15 unlicensed basis. The Commission also seeks 
comment on the appropriate procedures for the certification of 
equipment used to provide jamming solutions in correctional facilities, 
and on the extent to which it is necessary to specifically limit the 
marketing and sale of such

[[Page 54263]]

transmitters directly to DOCs and solutions providers that contract 
with them to provide jamming solutions.
    104. Given the novelty of the proposed framework, the Commission 
also seeks comment on a phased implementation of jamming solutions, 
such as a pilot program in controlled environments, or an initial 
restriction to, for example, facilities located in rural areas that 
might pose an even lower risk of harmful interference. The Commission 
requests specific comment on the costs and benefits of a phased 
implementation, as well as appropriate parameters for a phased 
approach. In addition, the Commission seeks comment on whether the 
public would benefit from specific processes for communicating 
complaints of harmful interference from jamming solutions, beyond 
processes currently in place.
    105. Finally, the Commission seeks comment on whether there are 
other device-based solutions that should be considered for inclusion in 
the proposed deauthorization framework in addition to jamming 
solutions. In the context of the proposed deauthorization framework, 
the Third FNPRM invites commenters to refresh the record specifically 
on the feasibility of geofencing, or geolocation-based denial (and if 
feasible, whether the Commission should consider mandating that 
wireless providers eliminate unauthorized devices within correctional 
facility perimeters), and beacon technology, whether there have been 
technological, economic, or policy developments affecting the 
deployment of these technologies, and whether the Commission can play a 
role in promoting these tools.

B. Legal Basis

    106. The proposed action is authorized pursuant to sections 1, 2, 
4(i), 4(j), 301, 302, 303, 307-310, 319, 324, and 332 of the 
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 151, 152, 154(i), 
154(j), 301, 302a, 303, 307-310, 319, 324, and 332, and Sec.  1.411 of 
the Commission's rules, 47 CFR 1.411.

C. Description and Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which 
the Proposed Rules Will Apply

    107. The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of, and 
where feasible, an estimate of the number of small entities that may be 
affected by the rules adopted herein. The RFA generally defines the 
term ``small entity'' as having the same meaning as under the Small 
Business Act. In addition, the term ``small business'' has the same 
meaning as the term ``small business concern'' under the Small Business 
Act.'' A ``small business concern'' is one which: (1) is independently 
owned and operated; (2) is not dominant in its field of operation; and 
(3) satisfies any additional criteria established by the SBA.
    108. Our actions, over time, may affect small entities that are not 
easily categorized at present. We therefore describe three broad groups 
of small entities that could be directly affected by our actions. In 
general, a small business is an independent business having fewer than 
500 employees. These types of small businesses represent 99.9% of all 
businesses in the United States, which translates to 34.75 million 
businesses. Next, ``small organizations'' are not-for-profit 
enterprises that are independently owned and operated and not dominant 
their field. While we do not have data regarding the number of non-
profits that meet that criteria, over 99 percent of nonprofits have 
fewer than 500 employees. Finally, ``small governmental jurisdictions'' 
are defined as cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school 
districts, or special districts with populations of less than fifty 
thousand. Based on the 2022 U.S. Census of Governments data, we 
estimate that at least 48,724 out of 90,835 local government 
jurisdictions have a population of less than 50,000.
    109. The actions taken in the Third FNPRM will apply to small 
entities in the industries identified in the chart below by their six-
digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes and 
corresponding SBA size standard.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                   Percent small
   Regulated industry (NAICS      NAICS code        SBA size        Total firms     Small firms      firms in
        classification)                             standard                                         industry
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Radio and Television                    334220  1,250 employees.             656             624           95.12
 Broadcasting and Wireless
 Communications Equip
 Manufacturing.
Other Communications Equipment          334290  750 employees...             321             310           96.57
 Manufacturing.
Wireless Telecommunications             517112  1,500 employees.           2,893           2,837           98.06
 Carriers (except Satellite).
Telecommunications Resellers..          517121  1,500 employees.           1,386           1,375           99.21
Satellite Telecommunications..          517410  $47 million.....             275             242           88.00
All Other Telecommunications..          517810  $40 million.....           1,079           1,039           96.29
Engineering Services..........          541330  $34 million.....          37,462          34,803           92.90
Facilities Support Service....          561210  $47 million.....           1,922           1,783           92.77
Security Guards and Patrol              561612  $47 million.....              76              76          100.00
 Services.
All Other Support Services....          561990  $16.5 million...           9,615           9,350           97.24
Correctional Institutions.....          922140  No SBA Size                1,677             813           48.48
                                                 Standard.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    110. Based on currently available U.S. Census data regarding the 
estimated number of small firms in each identified industry, we 
conclude that the adopted rules will impact a substantial number of 
small entities. Where available, we provide additional information 
regarding the number of potentially affected entities in the above 
identified industries, and information for other affected entities, as 
follows.

[[Page 54264]]



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   2024 Universal service monitoring report telecommunications          SBA size standard (1,500 employees)
        service provider data (data as of December 2023)         -----------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------  Total number
                                                                   FCC Form 499A    Small firms    Percent small
                         Affected entity                              filers                         entities
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Toll Resellers..................................................             411             398           96.84
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite).........             585             498           85.13
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    111. Experimental Radio Service (Other Than Broadcast). Neither the 
SBA nor the Commission have developed a size standard for this 
industry. Experimental Radio Service is a service in which radio waves 
are employed for purposes of experimentation in the radio art or for 
purposes of providing essential communications for research projects 
that could not be conducted without the benefit of such communications. 
The majority of experimental licenses are issued to companies such as 
Motorola and Department of Defense contractors such as Northrop Grumman 
and Lockheed Martin. Large businesses such as these are the primary 
applicants for such licenses and may have as many as 200 licenses at 
one time. For the purposes of this regulatory flexibility analysis, 
using the SBA's Office of Advocacy's general definition that a small 
business is an independent business having fewer than 500 employees, 
the Commission estimates that 30 percent of applications, will be 
awarded to small entities. The Commission processes approximately 1,000 
applications a year for experimental radio operations. About half, or 
500 of these are renewals and the other half are for new licenses. We 
do not have adequate information to predict precisely how many of these 
are from small entities. However, based on the above figures we 
estimate that as many as 300 of these applications could be from small 
entities and could potentially be impacted.

D. Description of Economic Impact and Projected Reporting, 
Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements for Small Entities

    112. The RFA directs agencies to describe the economic impact of 
proposed rules on small entities, as well as projected reporting, 
recordkeeping and other compliance requirements, including an estimate 
of the classes of small entities which will be subject to the 
requirements and the type of professional skills necessary for 
preparation of the report or record.
    113. In the Third FNPRM, the Commission seeks public comment on a 
potential framework that would increase the RF options that DOCs could 
utilize to combat contraband wireless device use in correctional 
facilities. There are three classes of small entities that might be 
impacted: correctional facilities, solutions providers, and providers 
of wireless services. For all of these entities, the Commission first 
proposes to leverage its existing leasing rules applicable to CISs as 
much as possible to reduce regulatory burdens and continue expedited 
processing for these important solutions. With this intent in mind, the 
Third FNPRM seeks comment on the extent to which the Commission's rules 
require amendment to effectuate authorization through lease 
arrangements of transmitters operating on wireless provider licensed 
commercial spectrum to deploy jamming solutions in correctional 
facilities. Small and other entities are encouraged to comment on any 
potential regulatory burdens or costs incurred in connection with these 
proposals, if adopted. We also encourage suggestions from small and 
other entities on ways in which the Commission may minimize any 
required information collections, while ensuring that all parties meet 
the desired goals of providing an additional tool toward combating 
contraband wireless device use, and that only non-authorized devices 
are impacted.

E. Discussion of Significant Alternatives Considered That Minimize the 
Significant Economic Impact on Small Entities

    114. The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of any 
significant alternatives to the proposed rules that would accomplish 
the stated objectives of applicable statutes, and minimize any 
significant economic impact on small entities. The discussion is 
required to include alternatives such as: ``(1) the establishment of 
differing compliance or reporting requirements or timetables that take 
into account the resources available to small entities; (2) the 
clarification, consolidation, or simplification of compliance and 
reporting requirements under the rule for such small entities; (3) the 
use of performance rather than design standards; and (4) an exemption 
from coverage of the rule, or any part thereof, for such small 
entities.''
    115. As discussed above, in the Third FNPRM, the Commission seeks 
public comment on a proposed framework that seeks to increase the RF 
options that DOCs could utilize to better combat contraband wireless 
device use. Additionally, the Commission seeks comment on several 
regulatory alternatives that might reduce impacts on small entities. 
For example, the Commission seeks to leverage its current licensing 
process and existing leasing rules applicable to CISs, which small and 
other correctional facilities and/or solution providers that contract 
with correctional facilities have successfully used for more than a 
decade, rather than creating a completely new paradigm. Many entities 
that may be interested in participating in the framework proposed in 
the Third FNPRM may already be engaged in the process of combatting 
contraband wireless devices by the processes currently available, 
specifically for CISs. By leveraging the Commission's current spectrum 
leasing rules, small entities--be they solutions providers, or even the 
DOCs, as well as wireless providers--will already be familiar with the 
processes, thereby decreasing any new regulatory burdens and, by 
extension, minimizing significant economic impact to such entities. The 
Commission also seeks comment on the alternative of a phased 
implementation of jamming solutions, such as a pilot program in 
controlled environments, or an initial restriction to, for example, 
facilities located in rural areas that might pose an even lower risk of 
harmful interference. The Commission requests specific comment on the 
costs and benefits of a phased implementation, as well as appropriate 
parameters for a phased approach.
    116. The Third FNPRM also proposes a safe harbor for wireless 
providers to avoid potential liability for unauthorized operation of 
subscriber devices that fall within the proposed deauthorization rule, 
as well as direct jamming solution authorization mechanisms. The safe 
harbor will provide wireless providers with assurance that they will 
not be subject to enforcement action, provided they

[[Page 54265]]

either: have not received a specific request to lease their spectrum to 
support the authorization of a jamming solution or, if they have 
received such a request, they negotiated a good faith leasing 
arrangement with a DOC or its contracted solutions provider.
    117. The Commission invites comment on its proposed deauthorization 
rule and framework for facilitating the authorization of jamming 
solutions. Through these comments, the Commission seeks to develop 
final rules that combat the exigent public safety concerns of 
contraband wireless device use in correctional facilities, while also 
minimizing economic and other compliance burdens on small and other 
entities to the greatest extent possible.
    118. To clarify and simplify compliance and reporting requirements 
for impacted small and other entities, the Third FNPRM also invites 
comment regarding the prospective needs of the entities and the various 
approaches that can be taken to accommodate those needs in both a 
leasing arrangement and in a direct overlay licensing approach. In so 
doing, the Commission invites small and other entities to help inform 
on any necessary clarifications and/or simplification of compliance and 
reporting requirements that should be incorporated in the final rules. 
Receiving input from small entities will allow the Commission, to the 
extent feasible, to better consider options that could minimize the 
impact for these entities.
    119. Finally, the Commission finds an overriding public interest in 
preventing the illicit use of contraband wireless devices by 
incarcerated people to perpetuate criminal enterprises and therefore 
does not propose any exemptions for small entities from the potential 
solutions discussed in the Third FNPRM. If small entities were to be 
exempted from the selected approach, it is likely that the overall 
effectiveness of the solution would be reduced which is not consistent 
with, and is contrary to, the Commission's overarching goal of 
eliminating the use of contraband wireless devices in correctional 
facilities. Small and other entities have the opportunity to provide 
comments on technological, economic, policy, and/or legal developments 
sufficient to overcome the potential challenges presented by widespread 
deployment of the various options discussed in the Third FNPRM to 
combat wireless contraband use in correctional facilities. Importantly, 
the Third FNPRM gives small entities the ability to submit cost-benefit 
analyses, comments on economic and other challenges they may face with 
the potential solutions that have been discussed, and the opportunity 
to suggest other alternatives for the Commission to consider in any 
final rules that it may adopt.

F. Federal Rules That May Duplicate, Overlap, or Conflict With the 
Proposed Rules

    120. None.

List of Subjects

47 CFR Part 1

    Administrative practice and procedure, Communications, Radio, 
Telecommunications.

47 CFR Part 15

    Communications equipment, Radio.

47 CFR Part 90

    Administrative practice and procedure, Communications, 
Communications equipment, Radio, Telecommunications.

Federal Communications Commission.
Marlene Dortch,
Secretary.

Proposed Rules

    For the reasons discussed in the preamble, the Federal 
Communications Commission proposes to amend 47 CFR parts 1, 15, and 90 
as follows:

PART 1--PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

0
1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 47 U.S.C. chs. 2, 5, 9, 13; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 47 
U.S.C. 1754, unless otherwise noted.

0
2. Section 1.903 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as 
follows:


Sec.  1.903  Authorization required.

* * * * *
    (c) Subscribers. Authority for subscribers to operate mobile or 
fixed stations in the Wireless Radio Services, except for certain 
stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service and except for any fixed 
or mobile station that is considered a contraband wireless device, as 
defined in Sec.  1.9003 of this chapter, is included in the 
authorization held by the licensee providing service to them. 
Subscribers are not required to apply for, and the Commission does not 
accept, applications from subscribers for individual mobile or fixed 
station authorizations in the Wireless Radio Services, and individual 
authorizations for contraband wireless devices are not permitted. 
Individual authorizations are required to operate rural subscriber 
stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service, except as provided in 
Sec.  22.703 of this chapter. Individual authorizations are required 
for end users of certain Specialized Mobile Radio Systems as provided 
in Sec.  90.655 of this chapter. In addition, certain ships and 
aircraft are required to be individually licensed under parts 80 and 87 
of this chapter. See Sec. Sec.  80.13 and 87.18 of this chapter.
0
3. Section 1.9003 is amended by revising the definition of ``Contraband 
Interdiction System'' and by adding the definition of ``Jamming 
Solution'' in alphabetical order to read as follows:


Sec.  1.9003  Definitions

    Contraband Interdiction System. A Contraband Interdiction System is 
a system that transmits radio communication signals comprised of one or 
more stations used only in a correctional facility to: provide a 
jamming solution, subject to the special provisions of Sec.  1.9041 of 
this chapter; prevent transmissions to or from contraband wireless 
devices within the boundary of the facility, while being capable of 
distinguishing transmissions from contraband and non-contraband 
wireless devices; and/or obtain identifying information from a 
contraband wireless device.
* * * * *
    Jamming Solution. A Jamming Solution is the deployment of RF 
transmitter(s) within a correctional facility to prevent contraband 
wireless devices from establishing or maintaining a connection with a 
network.
* * * * *
0
4. Add Sec.  1.9041 to read as follows:


Sec.  1.9041  Special provisions relating to spectrum leasing 
arrangements for a jamming solution in correctional facilities.

    (a) Eligibility criteria. An entity seeking to engage in spectrum 
leasing as a lessee under this section may do so if it is a department 
of corrections with authority over the correctional facility for which 
the lease is sought, or a solutions provider that has entered into a 
contract with a department of corrections with authority over the 
correctional facility for which the lease is sought.
    (b) Application requirements. An entity seeking to engage in 
spectrum leasing as a lessee under this section must provide a 
certification as an attachment to FCC Form 608 stating that the entity:
    (1) Meets the eligibility criteria; and
    (2) Seeks to deploy equipment with a valid equipment authorization 
under part 2 of this chapter.

[[Page 54266]]

    (c) Subleasing. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sec. Sec.  
1.9020(l) and 1.9030(k), a spectrum lessee authorized to provide a 
jamming solution may not sublease spectrum usage rights.
    (d) Construction/performance requirements. Notwithstanding the 
provisions of Sec. Sec.  1.9020(d)(5)(i) and 1.9030(d)(5)(i), a 
licensee may not attribute to itself the build-out or performance 
activities of its spectrum lessee(s) providing a jamming solution for 
purposes of complying with any applicable performance or build-out 
requirement.
    (e) Good faith negotiations. CMRS licensees must negotiate in good 
faith with entities seeking to deploy a jamming solution in a 
correctional facility. Upon receipt of a good faith request by such an 
entity, a CMRS licensee must negotiate toward a lease agreement. If, 
after a 45-day period, there is no agreement, the entity seeking to 
operate a jamming solution in the absence of CMRS licensee consent may 
file an application for a part 90 non-exclusive overlay license for a 
jamming solution on FCC Form 601, as described in Sec.  90.1403 of this 
chapter, accompanied by evidence demonstrating its good faith, and the 
lack of good faith on the part of the CMRS licensee(s), in negotiating 
a lease arrangement.

PART 15--RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICES

0
5. The authority citation for part 15 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 47 U.S.C. 154, 302a, 303, 304, 307, 336, 544a, and 
549.

0
6. Section 15.5 is amended by adding paragraph (e) to read as follows:


Sec.  15.5  General conditions of operation.

* * * * *
    (e) Operation of devices as part of a jamming solution, as defined 
in Sec.  1.9003 of this chapter, is prohibited under this part, even 
under power levels that comply with the limits set forth in this part. 
Any jamming solution must be authorized pursuant to Sec. Sec.  1.9041 
or 90.1401, or a combination thereof, of this chapter.
0
7. Section 15.201 is amended by adding paragraph (e) to read as 
follows:


Sec.  15.201  Equipment authorization requirement.

* * * * *
    (e) An intentional radiator intended for use as part of a jamming 
solution, as defined in Sec.  1.9003 of this chapter, is not eligible 
for certification under part 15 pursuant to the Commission's part 2, 
subpart J Equipment Authorization Procedures.

PART 90--PRIVATE LAND MOBILE RADIO SERVICES

0
8. The authority citation for part 90 continues to read as follows:

    Authority: 47 U.S.C. 154(i), 161, 303(g), 303(r), 332(c)(7), 
1401-1473.

0
9. Add subpart AA, consisting of Sec. Sec.  90.1401 and 90.1403, to 
read as follows:

Subpart AA Regulations Governing the Licensing of Jamming 
Solutions.

Sec.
90.1401 Eligibility.
90.1403 Application requirements.


Sec.  90.1401  Eligibility.

    An entity is eligible to apply for an overlay license for the 
provision of a jamming solution (as defined in Sec.  1.9003 of this 
chapter) under this subpart if it:
    (a) Is a department of corrections with authority over the 
correctional facility for which authority to implement a jamming 
solution therein is sought, or is a solutions provider that has entered 
into a contract with a department of corrections with authority over a 
correctional facility for which authority to implement a jamming 
solution therein is sought; and
    (b) Meets the good faith negotiation requirements specified in 
Sec.  1.9041(e) of this chapter.


Sec.  90.1403  Application requirements.

    (a) Jamming overlay license application requirements. An overlay 
license applicant seeking authority to provide a jamming solution in a 
correctional facility must apply using FCC Form 601 in the Commission's 
Universal Licensing System (ULS) in accordance with part 1, subpart F 
of this chapter. All modifications or renewals of licenses and 
associated waiver requests must also be filed on FCC Form 601 in the 
Commission's Universal Licensing System (ULS) in accordance with part 
1, subpart F. The entity seeking an overlay license under this section 
must provide with its FCC Form 601 the following information:
    (1) A certification regarding its eligibility as specified in Sec.  
90.1401;
    (2) A certification that it seeks to deploy equipment as part of a 
jamming solution with a valid equipment authorization under part 2 of 
this chapter;
    (3) A description of the jamming solution to be deployed at the 
correctional facility demonstrating that the applicant is prepared to 
deploy a solution that does not interfere with authorized devices, 
including technical parameters, and the service area associated with 
the proposed operations; and
    (4) A declaration in accordance with Sec.  1.16 of this chapter.
    (b) Authorization of jamming solutions. An overlay license for a 
jamming solution in a correctional facility is deemed effective only 
after the following actions are completed:
    (1) Conditional grant of an overlay license application for the 
specified geographic area;
    (2) Satisfaction of the condition(s) of the overlay license 
following on-site testing at the correctional facility demonstrating to 
the Commission, through the filing of a certification, that the system 
functions as expected and within the licensed area, protecting 
authorized users within and outside the correctional facility from 
harmful interference; and
    (3) Grant of final Commission authority to provide a jamming 
solution at the correctional facility following successful on-site 
testing.

[FR Doc. 2025-21325 Filed 11-25-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6712-01-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>