<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 228 (Monday, December 1, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 228 (Monday, December 1, 2025)]
[Proposed Rules]
[Pages 55066-55083]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-21620]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION

47 CFR Part 1

[WT Docket No. 25-276; FCC 25-67; FR ID 318640]


Build America: Eliminating Barriers to Wireless Deployments

AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission.

ACTION: Proposed rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In this document, the Federal Communications Commission (the 
FCC or Commission) seeks to advance its Build America Agenda by seeking 
comment on reforms that would free towers and other wireless 
infrastructure from unlawful regulatory burdens imposed.

DATES: Comments are due December 31, 2025. Reply Comments are due 
January 15, 2026.

ADDRESSES: Pursuant to Sec. Sec.  1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's 
rules, 47 CFR 1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments and 
reply comments on or before the dates indicated on the first page of 
this document. Comments may be filed using the Commission's Electronic 
Comment Filing System (ECFS). You may submit comments, identified by WT 
Docket No. 25-276, by any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Electronic Filers: Comments may be filed electronically 
using the internet by accessing the ECFS: <a href="https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs">https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs</a>.
    <bullet> Paper Filers: Parties who choose to file by paper must 
file an original and one copy of each filing. Filings can be sent by 
hand or messenger delivery, by commercial courier, or by the U.S. 
Postal Service. All filings must be addressed to the Secretary, Federal 
Communications Commission.
    <bullet> Hand-delivered or messenger delivered paper filings for 
the Commission's Secretary are accepted between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. by 
the FCC's mailing contractor at 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis 
Junction, MD 20701. All hand deliveries must be held together with 
rubber bands or fasteners. Any envelopes and boxes must be disposed of 
before entering the building.
    <bullet> Commercial courier deliveries (any deliveries not by the 
U.S. Postal Service)

[[Page 55067]]

must be sent to 9050 Junction Drive, Annapolis Junction, MD 20701.
    <bullet> Filings sent by U.S. Postal Service First-Class Mail, 
Priority Mail, and Priority Mail Express must be sent to 45 L Street 
NE, Washington, DC 20554.
    <bullet> People with Disabilities. To request materials in 
accessible formats for people with disabilities (braille, large print, 
electronic files, audio format), send an email to <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#2a4c49491f1a1e6a4c4949044d455c"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="45232626707571052326266b222a33">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or 
call the Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau at 202-418-0530.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeff Bartlett, FCC, Wireless 
Telecommunications Bureau, Competition & Infrastructure Policy 
Division, (202) 418-1994, <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#cc86a9aaaabea9b5e28eadbeb8a0a9b8b88caaafafe2aba3ba"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="d19bb4b7b7a3b4a8ff93b0a3a5bdb4a5a591b7b2b2ffb6bea7">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), in WT Docket No. 25-276; FCC 25-276, 
adopted and released on September 30, 2025. The full text of this 
document is available at <a href="https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-25-67A1.pdf">https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-25-67A1.pdf</a>.
    Paperwork Reduction Act. This document may contain proposed new or 
modified information collections. The Commission, as part of its 
continuing effort to reduce paperwork burdens, invites the general 
public and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to comment on any 
information collections contained in this document, as required by the 
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3501-3521. In addition, 
pursuant to the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act of 2002, 44 U.S.C. 
3506(c)(4), we seek specific comment on how we might further reduce the 
information collection burden for small business concerns with fewer 
than 25 employees.
    Regulatory Flexibility Act. The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 
as amended (RFA), requires that an agency prepare a regulatory 
flexibility analysis for notice and comment rulemaking proceedings, 
unless the agency certifies that ``the rule will not, if promulgated, 
have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small 
entities.'' Accordingly, the Commission has prepared an Initial 
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) concerning potential rule and 
policy changes contained in this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM). 
The IRFA is set forth in Appendix B of the NPRM. The Commission invites 
the general public, in particular small businesses, to comment on the 
IRFA. Comments must be filed by the deadlines for comments on the first 
page of this NPRM and must have a separate and distinct heading 
designating them as responses to the IRFA.
    Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act. Consistent with 
the Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act, Public Law 118-
9, a summary of this document will be available on <a href="https://www.fcc.gov/proposed-rulemakings">https://www.fcc.gov/proposed-rulemakings</a>.

Synopsis

Introduction

    With this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), we advance the 
Commission's Build America Agenda by proposing reforms that would free 
towers and other wireless infrastructure from regulatory burdens 
imposed at the state and local level. This NPRM answers President 
Trump's call across the federal government to expedite, eliminate, and 
simplify permitting burdens that inhibit economic development, job 
creation, and energy production. This proceeding also builds on the 
Commission's successful efforts during President Trump's first term to 
streamline infrastructure rules, which helped spur significant 
investment and network buildout.
    New infrastructure builds remain essential to this nation's 5G 
leadership. American consumers demand more from their mobile networks 
as wireless data traffic rises rapidly year-over-year. The number of 
mobile voice subscriptions has continued to increase year-over-year. In 
North America alone, experts predict a 12% compound annual growth rate 
in mobile data traffic per active smartphone between 2024 and 2030. In 
addition, fixed wireless access (FWA) services, which are provided over 
the same networks that provide mobile voice and data service, have 
gained traction in the marketplace and can play a pivotal role in 
facilitating the delivery of broadband service. Artificial intelligence 
(AI) is also expected to significantly increase demand on mobile 
networks.
    To ensure that mobile service providers can keep pace with consumer 
demands and needs, we seek to continue the success of the Commission's 
prior efforts to remove regulatory barriers that would unlawfully 
inhibit the deployment of wireless infrastructure. This objective, 
which reflects a longstanding bipartisan priority, is consistent with 
Congress's stated intent in the Telecommunications Act of 1996 to 
``provide for a pro-competitive, de-regulatory national policy 
framework designed to accelerate rapidly private sector deployment of 
advanced telecommunications and information technologies to all 
Americans by opening all telecommunications markets to competition . . 
. .''
    In this NPRM, we first seek to clarify and potentially expand upon 
the Commission's rulings under certain permitting provisions of section 
6409(a) of the Spectrum Act of 2012 (Spectrum Act) that expedite state 
or local approval of certain modifications of existing tower and 
wireless base stations. In particular, in response to court remand, we 
seek to clarify the meaning of ``concealment elements,'' which are used 
by builders to minimize the visual impact of towers and other wireless 
infrastructure, and to codify these clarifications in Sec.  1.6100 of 
the Commission's rules, as described in Appendix A. We also ask for 
comment on other changes that the Commission should consider making to 
Sec.  1.6100, such as changes related to siting conditions, to further 
streamline wireless permitting proceedings and facilitate the rapid 
buildout of wireless infrastructure.
    Second, we seek comment on whether we should take further steps to 
ensure that state and local permitting regulations do not prohibit or 
have the effect of prohibiting the deployment of wireless 
infrastructure facilities pursuant to sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the 
Communications Act. We recognize that some state and local governments 
have taken important steps to modernize their approach to siting 
requests. However, in recent years, a number of state and local 
regulations have inhibited the deployment, densification, and upgrading 
of wireless networks, resulting in an effective prohibition of 5G 
wireless services. We seek comment on such regulations, including 
potential preemption, particularly those that:
    <bullet> Inhibit the deployment of macro cell towers and other 
wireless facilities;
    <bullet> Impose unreasonable delays of permitting approvals;
    <bullet> Assess disproportionate or otherwise unreasonable fees;
    <bullet> Condition approval on aesthetic or similar criteria; and
    <bullet> Impose other regulatory impediments in violation of the 
Telecommunications Act and Commission rules.
    In addition, we seek comment on whether the Commission should 
consider implementing alternative dispute resolution procedures to 
facilitate the resolution of permitting disputes.
    Our goal is to ensure that all state and local permitting 
regulations that address the deployment of wireless infrastructure are 
consistent with the

[[Page 55068]]

requirements of section 6409 of the Spectrum Act and sections 253 and 
332(c)(7) of the Communications Act, and do not prohibit or effectively 
prohibit the provision of service. As an overarching matter, we ask 
that commenters that responded to our companion Notice of Inquiry 
construing section 253's statutory provisions to identify portions of 
that record that bear on factual, policy, economic, or legal issues 
raised in this NPRM to help inform the Commission's next steps in this 
proceeding.

Background

FCC Implementation of Section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act

    In section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act, Congress recognized the 
efficiency of using existing infrastructure for the expansion of 
advanced wireless networks, and, accordingly, the need to expedite 
state or local approval of certain modifications of existing tower and 
wireless base stations. Section 6409(a) provides that ``a State or 
local government may not deny, and shall approve, any eligible 
facilities request for a modification of an existing wireless tower or 
base station that does not substantially change the physical dimensions 
of such tower or base station.'' Further, section 6003 of the Spectrum 
Act requires the Commission to ``implement and enforce'' the provisions 
of the Spectrum Act as if it ``is a part of the Communications Act of 
1934.''
    In 2014, the Commission adopted rules implementing section 6409(a). 
Section 1.6100(c)(2) of the Commission's rules provides that a state or 
local government must approve an eligible facilities request within 60 
days of the date on which an applicant submits the request. The rules 
define an ``eligible facilities request'' as ``[a]ny request for 
modification of an existing tower or base station that does not 
substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base 
station, involving: (i) collocation of new transmission equipment; (ii) 
removal of transmission equipment; or (iii) replacement of transmission 
equipment.'' The rules provide that changes are ``substantial'' if 
they: (i) exceed defined limits on increases in the height or girth of 
the structure or the number of associated equipment cabinets; (ii) 
involve excavation or deployment on ground outside a structure's 
current site; (iii) defeat the concealment elements of the pre-existing 
structure; or (iv) violate conditions previously imposed by the local 
zoning authority.
    In the 2020 Declaratory Ruling, the Commission clarified the 2014 
rules including clarifying that the term ``concealment elements'' means 
``elements of a stealth-designed facility intended to make the facility 
look like something other than a wireless tower or base station,'' such 
as a tree or flag pole. The Commission clarified that, ``the element 
must have been part of the facility that the locality approved in its 
prior review.'' The Commission determined that a modification 
``defeats'' a concealment element (and thus becomes ineligible for 
expedited local approval) where it ``cause[s] a reasonable person to 
view the structure's intended stealth design as no longer effective 
after the modification.''
    The 2020 Declaratory Ruling also addressed the application of the 
siting conditions provision under which a proposed modification would 
not qualify as an eligible facilities request if it did ``not comply 
with conditions associated with the siting approval of the construction 
or modification of the eligible support structure or base station 
equipment . . . .'' The 2020 Declaratory Ruling stated that this 
limitation could include aesthetic conditions to minimize the visual 
impact of a wireless facility, as long as the condition does not 
prevent modifications explicitly allowed under the rules (antenna 
height, antenna width, equipment cabinets, and excavations or 
deployments outside the current site).
    In 2024, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Ninth 
Circuit) upheld the 2020 Declaratory Ruling in most respects but 
remanded to the Commission to use notice-and-comment rulemaking before 
clarifying the meaning of ``concealment elements.'' The court 
determined that the clarifications were ``inconsistent with the 
unambiguous text'' of the Commission's 2014 rules implementing section 
6409(a) and therefore were ``legislative rules'' that required a 
notice-and-comment rulemaking under the Administrative Procedure Act 
(APA). The court found that the 2020 Declaratory Ruling did not satisfy 
this procedural requirement and that this was not harmless error.

A. FCC Implementation of Sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the 
Communications Act

    Sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act expressly 
preempt state or local requirements that prohibit or have the effect of 
prohibiting the provision of telecommunications service and personal 
wireless service, respectively.
    Section 253(a) provides that ``[n]o State or local statute or 
regulation, or other State or local legal requirement, may prohibit or 
have the effect of prohibiting the ability of any entity to provide any 
interstate or intrastate telecommunications service.'' This provision 
establishes ``a rule of preemption [that] articulates a reasonably 
broad limitation on state and local governments' authority to regulate 
telecommunications providers.'' Sections 253(b) and 253(c) establish 
two exceptions to the rule of preemption. First, section 253(b) 
preserves state statutes, regulations, and legal requirements that are 
competitively neutral, consistent with section 253 of the Act, and 
``necessary to preserve and advance universal service, protect the 
public safety and welfare, ensure the continued quality of 
telecommunications services, and safeguard the rights of consumers.'' 
Second, section 253(c) preserves ``the authority of a State or local 
government to manage their public rights-of-way or to require fair and 
reasonable compensation from telecommunications providers, on a 
competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis, for the use of 
public rights-of-way on a nondiscriminatory basis, if the compensation 
required is publicly disclosed by such government.'' Section 253(d) 
requires the Commission, after notice and comment, to preempt the 
enforcement of specific state or local requirements that violate 
section 253 to ``the extent necessary to correct such violation or 
inconsistency.''
    Similar to section 253, Congress specified in section 332(c)(7) 
that ``[t]he regulation of the placement, construction, and 
modification of personal wireless service facilities by any State or 
local government or instrumentality thereof--(I) shall not unreasonably 
discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent services; and 
(II) shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision 
of personal wireless services.'' Section 332(c)(7) also sets forth a 
judicial remedy, stating that ``[a]ny person adversely affected by any 
final action or failure to act by a State or local government'' that is 
inconsistent with the requirements of Section 332(c)(7) ``may, within 
30 days after such action or failure to act, commence an action in any 
court of competent jurisdiction.''
    In 2018, the Commission adopted the Small Cell Order, which 
affirmed that state or local statutes, regulations, or ordinances are 
unlawful when they prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting service 
under sections 253(a) and 332(c)(7) with respect to ``Small

[[Page 55069]]

Wireless Facilities.'' Specifically, the Commission found that state 
and local regulatory fees prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting 
the deployment of Small Wireless Facilities under sections 253 and 332, 
unless the fees: (1) reasonably approximate the state or local 
government's costs; (2) include only ``objectively reasonable costs''; 
and (3) are ``no higher than the fees charged to similarly-situated 
competitors in similar situations.'' Given the characteristics of Small 
Wireless Facilities and the anticipated number of deployments, the 
Commission concluded that for Small Wireless Facilities, fees that 
exceed these limits prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting service 
when considered in the aggregate. The Commission also established 
presumptive ``shot clocks'' that govern the amount of time state and 
local permitting authorities can take to review applications for both 
Small Wireless Facilities and other larger facilities. The Commission 
also concluded that state and local ``aesthetics requirements are not 
preempted if they are (1) reasonable, (2) no more burdensome than those 
applied to other types of infrastructure deployments, and (3) objective 
and published in advance.''
    In August 2020, the Ninth Circuit upheld the Commission's Small 
Cell Order with respect to fee limitations, shot clocks, and the 
finding that aesthetic requirements must be reasonable. The court, 
however, vacated and remanded the Commission's determination that 
aesthetic requirements be no more burdensome than those applied to 
other types of infrastructure deployments, and found that the 
requirement that aesthetic requirements be objective lacked a reasoned 
explanation.

Discussion

B. Section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act

    We propose to revise Sec.  1.6100 of the Commission's rules (as set 
forth in Appendix A of the NPRM) to codify the 2020 Declaratory 
Ruling's clarifications regarding concealment elements and siting 
conditions. In addition, we propose to codify the guidance and examples 
the Commission provided in the 2020 Declaratory Ruling, to illustrate 
how the rule revisions would operate in practice. We anticipate that 
revising the rules as proposed will help provide greater certainty, and 
thereby reduce the number of disputes in the permitting process.
Concealment Elements
    Section 1.6100(b)(7)(v) of the Commission's rules states that a 
modification ``substantially changes'' the physical dimensions of an 
existing structure if ``[i]t would defeat the concealment elements of 
the eligible support structure,'' but it does not define what qualifies 
as a ``concealment element.'' In the Wireless Infrastructure Order the 
Commission stated that ``concealed or `stealth'-designed facilities'' 
were ``facilities designed to look like some feature other than a 
wireless tower or base station,'' and that ``any change that defeats 
the concealment elements of such facilities would be considered a 
substantial change under section 6409(a).'' The Commission identified 
``painting to match the supporting facade or artificial tree branches'' 
as examples of ``concealment elements.''
    In the 2020 Declaratory Ruling, the Commission sought to clarify 
the concealment elements provision in Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(v), noting 
that stakeholders had ``interpreted the definition of `concealment 
element' and the types of modifications that would `defeat' concealment 
in different ways.'' The Commission clarified that concealment elements 
were ``elements of a stealth-designed facility intended to make the 
facility look like something other than a wireless tower or base 
station.'' The Commission also found that concealment elements are 
``defeated'' when ``the proposed modification . . . cause[s] a 
reasonable person to view the structure's intended stealth design as no 
longer effective after the modification.'' In doing so, the Commission 
rejected arguments that ``any attribute that minimizes the visual 
impact of a facility, such as a specific location on a rooftop site or 
placement behind a tree line or fence, can be a concealment element.'' 
The Commission noted that local governments often address visual 
impacts ``not through specific stealth conditions, but through careful 
placement conditions'' and that the Commission's rules governing 
``conditions associated with the siting approval'' separately address 
conditions to minimize the visual impact of non-stealth facilities.
    Consistent with the 2020 Declaratory Ruling, we propose to define 
concealment elements as those elements intended to make a stealth-
designed facility look like something other than a wireless tower or 
base station. We also propose that a requested modification would 
``defeat'' a concealment element if it would cause a reasonable person 
to view the structure's intended stealth design as ineffective. A 
proposed modification would not defeat concealment if its stealth-
design elements would continue to make the structure not appear to be a 
wireless facility.
    We further propose to codify the guidance the Commission provided 
in the 2020 Declaratory Ruling regarding the application of this 
approach. For example, placing coaxial cable on the outside of a 
stealth facility would be unlikely to make the stealth design of the 
facility ineffective because such cables are typically a small size. A 
modification that involves a change in color would only defeat 
concealment if it would cause a reasonable person to view the intended 
stealth design of the underlying facility as no longer effective. For 
facilities stealth-designed to resemble a pine tree (a ``monopine'' 
wireless facility), if the prior approval of that facility requires 
that the monopine remain hidden behind a tree line, a proposed 
modification that makes the monopine visible above the tree line would 
not defeat concealment if a reasonable person would continue to view 
the stealth design of the monopine as effective. We would not view a 
requirement that the facility remain hidden behind a tree line as a 
feature of a stealth-designed facility, but instead as an aesthetic 
siting approval condition that would fall under Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(vi), 
as described below.
    We expect that these changes will provide a clearer regulatory 
framework that will mitigate potential disputes during the permitting 
process and expedite broadband deployment. We seek comment on this 
analysis and on the scope of benefits and any potential drawbacks 
associated with our proposed approach. Do commenters agree that 
adopting these proposed rule changes would help spur wireless 
facilities deployment by providing clarity and reducing permitting 
disputes? We ask commenters to provide information about their 
experiences during the permitting process. To what extent do disputes 
regarding concealment elements arise? What changes have localities 
viewed as defeating concealment? What effect have such disputes about 
concealment elements had on efforts to deploy wireless infrastructure? 
If any commenters oppose our proposed rule changes, we ask them to 
explain why the proposed changes should not be adopted and to discuss 
alternative approaches we should consider, including any alternative 
approaches that should apply to small entities. We propose to codify 
the examples to illustrate how the rules would apply and seek

[[Page 55070]]

comment on this approach. Are there other situations that we should 
consider addressing in this manner?
Conditions Associated With the Siting Approval
    We also propose to revise the rules to formally codify the 
Commission's determinations in the 2020 Declaratory Ruling regarding 
siting approval conditions. Under the current rules, a modification is 
``substantial'' (and thus ineligible for expedited approval) if ``[i]t 
does not comply with conditions associated with the siting approval of 
the construction or modification of the eligible support structure or 
base station equipment, provided however that this limitation does not 
apply to any modification that is non-compliant only in a manner that 
would not exceed the thresholds identified in [paragraphs](b)(7)(i) 
through (iv).'' Consistent with the court's decision and the 2020 
Declaratory Ruling, we propose to revise the rule to clarify that any 
siting approval condition--including an aesthetics-related condition or 
any other condition designed to address the visual impact of a 
facility--cannot be used to prevent modifications specifically allowed 
under Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(i) through (iv) of the rules.
    We further propose to adopt and codify the Commission's previous 
guidance and examples from the 2020 Declaratory Ruling. For example, if 
a locality had an aesthetics-related condition that specified a three-
foot shroud cover for a three-foot antenna, the locality could not 
prevent replacement of the original antenna with a four-foot antenna 
that complies with Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(i). If there was express evidence 
that the shroud cover requirement was a condition of the locality's 
original approval, the locality could enforce its shrouding condition 
if the provider could reasonably install a four-foot shroud to cover 
the new four-foot antenna. The locality also could enforce a shrouding 
requirement that was not size-specific and that did not limit 
modifications allowed under Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(i) through (iv).
    Under the proposal, existing walls and fences around non-stealth 
designed facilities would be considered aesthetic conditions and not 
concealment elements. However, if there was express evidence that the 
wall or fence was a condition of approval in order to fully obscure the 
original equipment from view, the locality may require a provider to 
make reasonable efforts to extend the wall or fence to continue 
covering the equipment. We further propose to codify the Commission's 
2020 guidance that for a tower that was originally approved conditioned 
on being hidden behind a tree line, a proposed modification, allowed 
under Sec.  1.6100, that would make the tower visible above the tree 
line would be permitted. A locality could not prevent such a 
modification because the provider presumably could not reasonably 
replace a grove of mature trees with a grove of taller mature trees to 
maintain the absolute hiding of the tower.
    We seek comment on the proposed rule changes. We tentatively 
conclude that they would make the Commission's rules clearer and easier 
to understand, streamline the wireless permitting processes across the 
country, and minimize disputes over differing interpretations. We ask 
for comments on this analysis and on the potential benefits or 
drawbacks of this approach. In addition, we invite commenters to 
discuss their experiences with respect to aesthetics-related conditions 
and conditions designed to address the visual impact of wireless 
facilities. Do such conditions affect the time to complete deployment, 
increase costs, or reduce providers' ability to satisfy coverage 
demands and/or provide enhanced services. We ask commenters to also 
provide information on the extent to which such conditions have 
restricted modifications to existing infrastructure that would have 
otherwise been permitted under our rules. Commenters who oppose our 
approach should explain why the proposed rule changes should not be 
adopted and discuss alternatives the Commission should consider, 
including alternatives that would be appropriate for small entities.
Other Considerations
    Finally, we seek comment on other possible changes to Sec.  1.6100 
to reduce permitting and other barriers to infrastructure deployment. 
For example, should the Commission clarify the relationship between 
time-limited conditional use permits (CUPs) and the requirements of 
section 6409(a)? Recently, some local jurisdictions have passed 
ordinances that require tower owners to renew their wireless tower 
facility permits after 10 years, which include ``eligible facilities'' 
under section 6409. In some instances, after the expiration of the 
initial permit period, the local government imposes new conditions on 
permit renewals for deployments previously deemed eligible facilities 
requests under section 6409(a). For example, a City of Monterey, CA 
ordinance states that a wireless facility permit may not have a 
duration longer than ten years. We seek comment on whether the 
Commission should adopt a rule that, once a particular deployment is 
found to be an eligible facilities request and the permit is granted by 
a state or local jurisdiction, that state or local jurisdiction may not 
seek to impose new conditions as part of a permit renewal process. Does 
the imposition of new conditions at the time of renewal conflict with 
section 6409(a)(1), which provides, in pertinent part, that ``a State 
or local government may not deny, and shall approve, any eligible 
facilities request for a modification of an existing wireless tower or 
base station that does not substantially change the physical dimensions 
of such tower or base station''? Are such ordinances equivalent to a 
local or state government limiting eligible facilities status to the 
length of the term of the local permit? Is there any scenario under 
which an ``eligible facility'' would lose this designation after it is 
acknowledged at the initial permit stage? For example, would imposing a 
new condition be acceptable after a natural disaster alters the terrain 
where the eligible facility was previously authorized?
    Are there other changes that should be made to initial permit 
application review and/or renewal applications that would clarify and 
expedite deployment? Is there a need to further clarify when the 
timeframe for review is deemed to have begun? Are there other 
considerations regarding Sec.  1.6100 that would clarify the permitting 
and renewal process and make it more efficient?

C. Sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act

    As described in this section, we continue to see state and local 
regulatory impediments to vital infrastructure builds and to the 
provision of new and high quality services in a competitive 
marketplace. We seek comment on whether we should take further steps to 
ensure that state and local permitting regulations do not prohibit or 
have the effect of prohibiting the deployment of wireless 
infrastructure facilities pursuant to sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the 
Communications Act, recognizing the Ninth Circuit's guidance outlined 
above. Specifically, we seek comment on state and local permitting 
regulations that: inhibit the deployment of macro cell towers and other 
wireless facilities, impose unreasonable delays on permitting 
approvals, assess disproportionate or otherwise unreasonable fees, 
condition approval on aesthetic requirements or similar criteria, and 
impose other regulatory

[[Page 55071]]

impediments. In addition, we seek comment on whether the Commission 
should consider implementing alternative dispute resolution procedures 
to resolve permitting disputes between applicants and state and local 
governments.
Macro Cell Towers and Other Wireless Facilities
    The Small Cell Order focused on state and local permitting 
requirements that affect the installation of Small Wireless Facilities. 
We recognize, however, the importance of ensuring the timely buildout 
of macro cell towers and other wireless facilities, which play a vital 
role in promoting competition and securing higher-quality services.
    We seek comment on whether we should extend any of the Small Cell 
Order reforms adopted in 2018 or discussed in this NPRM to macro cell 
towers and other wireless facilities. Are there barriers to extending 
the Small Cell Order reforms to macro facilities or other wireless 
facilities? Commenters should identify which reforms should or should 
not be extended, and provide specific examples and data that support 
their position. For example, are there aspects of the Small Cell Order 
related to densification or fees that are applicable to macro towers or 
other wireless facilities? If we extend any of the Small Wireless 
Facilities reforms to macro cell towers and other wireless facilities, 
is there a need to modify these reforms to match the specific 
circumstances associated with the siting of these types of facilities? 
Are there issues beyond those addressed in the Small Cell Order and 
this NPRM that are unique to macro cell towers and, if so, how should 
the Commission address those issues?
    We also seek comment on what constitutes a macro cell tower. Are 
macro cell towers simply wireless facilities that do not qualify as 
Small Wireless Facilities under our rules? Are there other factors that 
we should consider in defining macro cell towers and related 
facilities? For instance, should we consider the height, width, and 
volume of the tower or whether the tower is a monopole, lattice, or 
guyed tower? Should we consider whether the macro facilities or other 
wireless facilities will be placed on pre-existing structures (e.g., a 
water tower)? Commenters should propose definitions for what qualifies 
as a macro cell tower or other wireless facilities, explain how these 
facilities are distinguishable from Small Wireless Facilities, and 
articulate how the Commission should treat these other categories of 
wireless facilities.
Unreasonable Delays of Permitting Approvals
    In the Commission's 2009 Declaratory Ruling, the Commission 
established a ``shot clock'' framework to implement the ``reasonable 
period of time'' provision of section 332(c)(7)(B)(ii), finding that 
the lack of a decision from a permitting authority within certain 
periods of time constituted a ``failure to act''. Specifically, the 
Commission found that 90 days is a reasonable time frame for processing 
collocation applications and 150 days is a reasonable time frame to 
process applications other than collocations. In the Small Cell Order, 
the Commission adopted a new shot clock framework to take into account 
the unique features and needs of Small Wireless Facilities. There, the 
Commission adopted a 60-day shot clock as a presumptively reasonable 
time period for reviewing applications for Small Wireless Facility 
collocations, and a 90-day shot clock as a presumptive reasonable time 
period for a newly constructed structure. The Commission also codified 
the presumptive 90-day and 150-day shot clocks developed in the 2009 
Declaratory Ruling for siting applications that do not involve Small 
Wireless Facilities.
    We seek comment on how well the shot clocks codified in the 
Commission's rules have helped expedite the delivery of advanced 
communications services. Have the shot clock timeframes provided 
greater clarity and efficiency in processing permit applications? Has 
litigation been reduced? Would adopting additional shot clocks for 
specific scenarios help improve the efficiency of permit approvals and, 
if so, what specific revisions and/or additions should be made?
    In the Small Cell Order, the Commission codified its previous 
determination that a shot clock begins to run when an application is 
submitted, not when it is deemed complete by the permitting authority. 
The rules provide for a temporary pause or tolling if: (1) the 
permitting authority notifies the applicant within 30 days of 
submission that the application is materially incomplete and specifies 
the information needed for completion; and (2) the locality provides 
written notice to the applicant within 10 days of submission of the 
applicant's response that not all of the specified information was 
submitted. The shot clock restarts once the applicant submits the 
supplemental information.
    We seek comment on the effectiveness of these notifications in 
removing complications and ensuring the efficient processing of 
incomplete applications. Are permitting authorities requesting multiple 
rounds of supplements, with subsequent requests including comments not 
contained in the first request? How often do permitting authorities 
notify applicants of incomplete filings close to the end of the shot 
clock period?
    The Commission determined violations of the shot clocks for Small 
Wireless Facilities constitute a section 332(c) ``failure to act,'' and 
a ``presumptive prohibition on the provision of personal wireless 
services within the meaning of section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II).'' The 
Commission expects that either the permitting authority would ``issue 
all necessary permits without further delay,'' or the applicant would 
have ``a straightforward case'' for obtaining relief in court based on 
violations of section 332(c)(7). The Commission anticipated that courts 
will typically find that injunctive relief is warranted if there is 
inaction at the end of the shot clock period, absent extraordinary 
circumstances that would rebut the presumptive shot clock period.
    In the Small Cell Order, the Commission noted that ``there may be 
merit'' to a ``deemed granted'' remedy but it declined to adopt this 
remedy because it determined that the shot clock framework that it had 
codified ``should address the concerns raised by a `deemed granted' 
remedy.'' The Commission also indicated that if its approach ``proves 
insufficient'' it may again consider adopting a deemed granted 
approach.'' The Ninth Circuit upheld the Commission's decision not to 
adopt a ``deemed granted'' remedy because the Commission had 
``reasonably explained'' that the new shot clock framework would reduce 
delays prevalent under the prior shot clock regime.
    We seek comment on whether shot clocks are preventing unreasonable 
delay or whether the Commission should reconsider its prior decision 
not to adopt a deemed granted remedy. If appropriate, what would be the 
basis for the Commission to adopt a ``deemed granted'' rule for shot 
clock violations? For example, could a deemed granted remedy be 
justified on the basis that unreasonable delays have the effect of 
prohibiting deployment in violation of section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II)? 
Could the Commission enforce a shot clock violation through a petition 
under section 253(d)?
    In addition, we seek comment on the effect of excessive delays on 
the prohibition of covered service under section 253 and 332(c)(7). For 
example,

[[Page 55072]]

can excessive delays result in the abandonment of certain planned 
deployments? Can such delays also raise the cost of deployments such 
that a provider might be forced to scale back a planned deployment, 
either in the locality affected by the delay or in other planned 
localities? Commenters should provide estimates of recent deployment 
costs that were raised or schedules that were not met due to expected 
or actual delays in authorization, including costs per day of delay. 
How do covered service providers determine when regulatory costs and 
delays make the provision of telecommunications uneconomical and, 
therefore, prohibitive in a community? Do delays and costs have a 
uniquely harmful effect on wireless deployments as opposed to other 
types of deployments?
Disproportionate or Unreasonable State and Local Fees
    Standard for Determining Reasonability of Fees. In the Small Cell 
Order, the Commission recognized that ``state and local fees and other 
charges associated with the deployment of wireless infrastructure can 
unlawfully prohibit the provision of service'' under sections 253 and 
332(c)(7). The Commission determined that ``fees are only permitted to 
the extent that they are nondiscriminatory and represent a reasonable 
approximation of the locality's reasonable costs.'' The Commission 
identified ``specific fee levels for the deployment of Small Wireless 
Facilities that presumptively comply with this standard.'' The 
Commission further found that ``a variety of fees not reasonably 
tethered to costs appear to violate sections 253(a) or 332(c)(7) . . . 
.'' For example, the Commission noted, ``gross revenue fees generally 
are not based on the costs associated with an entity's use of the ROW, 
and where that is the case, are preempted under section 253(a).'' With 
respect to the use of third party contractors or consultants, the 
Commission found that the ``fees must not only be limited to a 
reasonable approximation of costs, but in order to be reflected in 
fees, the costs themselves must also be reasonable.'' In City of 
Portland, the Ninth Circuit upheld the Commission's determinations on 
fees, concluding that the Commission reasonably determined that, when 
localities impose small cell fees that exceed the localities' actual 
and reasonable costs, those inflated fees have a prohibitive effect on 
the deployment of small cells nationwide.
    Subsequent to the Small Cell Order, the Wireless Telecommunications 
Bureau (Bureau) addressed a petition for declaratory ruling requesting 
preemption of certain recurring fees set forth in a Clark County, 
Nevada (Clark County) ordinance. In doing so, the Bureau clarified 
that, pursuant to the Small Cell Order, a locality, rather than the 
petitioner, ``has the burden of demonstrating to the Commission why 
fees above safe harbor levels should not be preempted (assuming that 
the petitioner has made a prima facie case that the fees in question 
do, in fact, exceed these safe harbor levels).''
    We seek comment on the extent to which state and local fees 
continue to impede wireless infrastructure deployment and on whether 
certain findings in the Small Cell Order on fees are equally applicable 
to larger wireless facilities, such as macro towers. Additionally, we 
seek comment on whether we should codify the Commission's findings from 
the Small Cell Order and the Verizon Clark County Dismissal Order? 
Should we consider adopting other safe harbors for additional types of 
fees and/or additional types of wireless infrastructure deployments, 
such as larger wireless facilities? Should we further define what 
constitutes reasonable costs? If so, what rules should we consider to 
help ensure that costs are reasonably limited to the processing of 
applications and to the use and maintenance of rights of way? Would 
codifying these clarifications help prevent states and localities from 
continuing to impose fees that are unlawful under sections 253 and 
332(c)(7)?
    Application of Economic Principles. The Commission's clarifications 
on fees in the Small Cell Order stemmed from application of economic 
principles and its recognition that ``infrastructure builders, like all 
economic actors, have a finite (though perhaps fluid) amount of 
resources to use for the deployment of infrastructure'' and that ``fees 
imposed by localities, above and beyond the recovery of localities' 
reasonable costs, materially and improperly inhibit deployment that 
could have occurred elsewhere.'' Moreover, the Commission has 
recognized the importance of considering the ``aggregate effects of 
fees imposed by individual localities.'' While the Commission's focus 
in the Small Cell Order was on the use of Small Wireless Facilities, we 
tentatively conclude that its implicit rationale applies with equal 
force to macro facilities and other wireless facilities. Such 
facilities continue to be critically important components of wireless 
network infrastructure nationwide and providers need these facilities 
to densify their networks and help improve the quality of the services 
they offer. We seek comment on whether this economic interpretation of 
our rules could help set a standard for determining when high rights-
of-way and other access fees on macro facilities and other wireless 
facilities would ``have the effect of prohibiting'' the deployment of 
5G networks--as they would raise the cost of service provision above a 
competitive level and prohibit certain efficient investments.
    This theoretical grounding supports and flows naturally from the 
principles the Commission articulated in the Small Cell Order, and we 
seek comment on how to apply them in the context of macro and other 
wireless facilities--in particular how an economic grounding 
illuminates the ``prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting'' language 
in sections 253 and 332. As noted, section 253 preempts any state or 
local regulations that ``prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the 
ability of any entity to provide any interstate or intrastate 
telecommunications service.'' We are interested in understanding this 
provision from an economic perspective in a manner consistent with the 
Small Cell Order.
    In particular, we are interested in exploring the fact that states 
and localities can set prices in a manner that is freed from 
competitive constraints when setting rights-of-way and other access 
charges. They therefore can charge rights-of-way fees that are higher 
than the direct or incremental costs of such access, thereby 
prohibiting the making of socially beneficial investments. Indeed, all 
else equal, setting price above incremental costs will tend to lower 
investment and reduce overall social welfare. The concern over lost 
investment due to excessive fees for access to rights-of-way or 
facilities within the rights-of-way is reflected in the Commission's 
precedent. As the Commission said in the California Payphone Order and 
emphasized again in the Small Cell Order, section 253 preempts those 
``ordinance[s that] materially inhibi[t] or limi[t] the ability of any 
competitor or potential competitor to compete in a fair and balanced 
legal and regulatory environment.''
    In competitive markets, prices tend toward marginal or incremental 
cost resulting in greater consumer welfare. Fees that are closely 
connected to recovering only direct or incremental costs are generally 
acceptable under section 253(a), while fees that recover more overhead 
such as joint and common costs require greater scrutiny. Fees that were 
set without regard to costs, such as those based on a

[[Page 55073]]

percentage of a provider's revenue, require the greatest scrutiny. Do 
commenters agree that fees that exceed the direct or incremental costs 
of issuing permits for such facilities result in a reduction in 
infrastructure investment and effectively prohibit the provision of 
wireless services on that basis?
    The Small Cell Order found fees above and beyond the localities' 
reasonable costs can result in an effective prohibition of a deployment 
elsewhere. As part of that determination, should we allow localities to 
recover some portion of joint and common costs? We note that, with the 
exception of Ramsey pricing, there is no non-arbitrary methodology for 
allocating common costs. Economic principles, therefore, can only 
suggest ranges of acceptable rights-of-way and access fees. Given the 
lack of clear economic principles for allocating common costs, would 
allowing recovery of common costs enable localities to load significant 
common costs on to access fees, such that they would discourage network 
investment?
    With respect to macro facilities and other wireless facilities, 
should the Commission allow localities to recover a portion of their 
joint and common costs? How do these costs relate to section 253's 
protection of states' and localities' ability to ``require fair and 
reasonable compensation from telecommunications providers, on a 
competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis?'' Given the 
importance of encouraging the deployment of telecommunications 
infrastructure, does section 253(c) require the recovery of common 
costs in excess of those costs directly attributable to, or caused by, 
the deployment of telecommunications infrastructure within the rights-
of-way? We seek comment on what would be an appropriate limiting 
principle for joint and common costs in the context of macro and other 
wireless facilities that would be within the scope of this statutory 
provision and inform the Commission's determination in this proceeding.
    In particular, would it be helpful for the Commission to define: 
(1) which types of potential common costs could be recovered from 
telecom providers; and (2) the portion of common costs that could be 
recovered from each provider? As far as which types of potential common 
costs could be recovered, we seek comment on limiting recoverable costs 
to those that directly and unambiguously benefit the party on which the 
fee is assessed. As far as the portion of common costs that could be 
recovered from each provider, we seek comment on suggesting that states 
and localities employ some measure of usage and/or benefits of cost-
imposing activity to determine the portion of common costs recovered 
from each party benefiting from the activity. We also seek comment on 
whether and to what extent we should consider cost recovery schemes the 
Commission has adopted in other contexts to inform our understanding of 
fees that ``ha[ve] the effect of prohibiting'' under section 253(a) and 
fall outside the scope of ``fair and reasonable compensation'' under 
section 253(c).
    Preemption of Local Fees. We are aware that applicants seeking 
permits to deploy wireless infrastructure facilities continue to face a 
range of state and local fees that may prohibit or have the effect of 
prohibiting telecommunications service in violation of sections 253 and 
332(c)(7). These state and local fees take the form of initial one-time 
fees, consulting fees, annual recurring fees, and gross revenue fees. 
These fees are applicable to permit requests for both Small Wireless 
Facilities as well as larger wireless facilities, such as macro towers. 
We tentatively conclude that the following examples are not justified 
by a state or local government's reasonable costs, and we seek comment 
on whether the Commission should preempt the local regulations that 
impose the fees discussed below. In addition to those listed, we also 
seek comment on other instances where state and local fees may be 
prohibiting or having the effect of prohibiting covered services.
    One-time Fees:
    <bullet> The City of San Francisco, California: Application fee of 
$6,874 and a surcharge of $120 for a total of $6,994;
    <bullet> City of San Diego, California: Fees ranging from more than 
$13,000 to more than $16,000 in addition to other fees to cover an 
``environmental initial study'' and an ``historic resources review'';
    <bullet> County of San Diego, California: Initial deposit plus fee 
ranging from more than $9,000 to more than $19,000 depending on type of 
facility;
    <bullet> Gwinnett County, Georgia: Application fee of $6,000 for 
communication towers greater than 50 feet in height;
    <bullet> Grant County, New Mexico: Application fee of $17,500 for a 
new tower and a $9,000 application fee for collocation on an existing 
tower or modification of existing facilities;
    <bullet> Rio Rancho, New Mexico: Application fee up to $15,000 for 
a new tower and $8,000 for collocation or substantial change;
    <bullet> Putnam Valley, New York: Building permitting fee of up to 
$5,000 per linear foot in height for a new tower plus a $3,000 fee for 
each antenna collocated on the tower;
    <bullet> Marion, North Carolina: Application fee of $5,000 for a 
new wireless tower plus an additional $15,000 fee for new towers to be 
located in the downtown district;
    <bullet> Portland, Oregon: Conditional use fee of $6,251 or $9,315 
(depending on location), plus additional fees for design review, 
environmental review, greenway review, and/or historic resource review 
that can exceed $20,000 in total; and
    <bullet> Thurston County, Washington: Base application fee of 
$25,776 (includes community planning and economic development, 
environmental health, and public works development review).
    Consulting Fees:
    <bullet> Oyster Bay, New York: Regulation that requires an 
applicant to maintain an escrow account with a balance of between 
$2,500 and $5,000 to reimburse the town for consultant costs; and
    <bullet> Walkersville, Maryland: Regulation that requires an expert 
assistance fee of no less than $7,500 for a new tower, support 
structure, or a substantial modification.
    Recurring Fees:
    <bullet> Phoenix, Arizona: Annual recurring fees for public rights-
of-way use for macro facilities that range from more than $4,000 to 
more than $27,000 depending on the size of ground equipment that is 
installed at the site; and
    <bullet> Scottsdale, Arizona: Annual recurring fee for public 
rights-of-way use for macro facilities that ranges from more than 
$7,000 to more than $30,000 depending on the size of ground equipment 
installed.
    Gross Revenue Fees:
    <bullet> Ashland, Oregon: Except for limited use telecommunications 
grantees, imposing minimum quarterly right-of-way usage fee equaling a 
percent of the grantee's gross revenues derived from grantee's 
provision of telecommunications services and telecommunications 
facilities to retail customers in the City and one percent (1%) on all 
other gross revenues derived from grantee's provision of 
telecommunications services and telecommunications facilities to 
wholesale customers in the City;
    <bullet> Ogden City, Utah: Providing that unless a wireless 
provider is subject to the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax 
under title 10, chapter 1, part 4 Utah Code Annotated, for the right to 
use and occupy the right-of-way the wireless provider shall pay to the

[[Page 55074]]

City an annual fee equal to the greater of: 3.5 percent of all annual 
gross revenue related to the wireless provider's use of the right-of-
way within the City or two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) annually for 
each small wireless facility located in the City;
    <bullet> St. George, Utah: Imposing an annual right of way usage 
fee equal to the greater of: (1) three and one-half percent (3.5%) of a 
wireless provider's gross revenues related to wireless provider's use 
of the public way, or (2) two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per small 
wireless facility; and
    <bullet> Lake Forest, Illinois: Imposing a city telecommunications 
infrastructure maintenance fee upon all telecommunications retailers in 
the amount of 1.0% of all gross charges charged by the 
telecommunications retailer to service addresses within the city for 
telecommunications originating or received in the city.
    For the four categories of fee regulations provided above we seek 
comment on our tentative conclusion that we should preempt these 
provisions because these fee regulations prohibit or have the effect of 
prohibiting the ability of wireless service providers to provide 
covered service. These fees do not appear to represent a reasonable 
approximation of the local permitting authority's reasonable costs. For 
example, some are assessed at a flat rate and, thus, do not appear to 
reflect the specifics of individual applications, such as the 
conditions at the particular site or the size and other characteristics 
of the proposed facility.
    To the extent these fees are applicable to Small Wireless 
Facilities, they do not appear to comply with the Commission's safe 
harbor fee levels, and are unlikely to be based on the costs associated 
with an entity's use of the public rights-of-way. For those that apply 
to larger wireless facilities, such as macro towers, the cumulative 
effect of these fees on macro towers can constrain providers' capital 
budgets and limit their ability to upgrade and improve their networks, 
similar to Small Wireless Facilities. Accordingly, we seek comment on 
whether we should preempt the local fee regulations listed above for 
both Small Wireless Facilities and other wireless facilities as 
violating sections 253(a) and 332(c)(7).
    Commenters advocating for preemption of such fees should provide 
evidence and documentation demonstrating that these fees prohibit or 
have the effect of prohibiting covered service and demonstrating that 
these fees are not based on the locality's reasonable and actual costs. 
Commenters who support these fees should explain why the Commission 
should not preempt these fees. They should provide evidence or 
documentation that: (1) these fees represent a reasonable approximation 
of the locality's costs and that the costs themselves are reasonable; 
and (2) that these fees are reasonably related to the management of 
public rights-of-way or the fees represent fair and reasonable 
compensation on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis for 
use of public rights-of-way.
    Are there other local permitting authorities that are imposing 
regulatory fees that mirror the fees cited above? If so, commenters 
should provide cites to these regulations, explain why the Commission 
should preempt these fees, and provide a legal rationale supporting 
their position, for example, that the fees are an effective prohibition 
of covered services and/or are not fair and reasonable.
Aesthetic Requirements
    In 2018, the Commission found that aesthetic regulations for Small 
Wireless Facilities significantly impacted the ability to deploy 
wireless infrastructure. The Commission stated that ``[l]ike fees, 
compliance with aesthetic requirements imposes costs on providers, and 
the impact on their ability to provide service is just the same as the 
impact of fees.'' The Commission concluded that, to be permissible 
under section 332, aesthetic requirements had to be reasonable, no more 
burdensome than those applied to other types of infrastructure 
deployments, and objective and published in advance.
    In City of Portland, the Ninth Circuit upheld the Commission's 
ruling that local aesthetic regulations be ``reasonable,'' and left in 
place the requirement that such regulations be ``published in 
advance.'' The court vacated the requirement that local aesthetic 
regulations for Small Wireless Facilities be ``no more burdensome'' 
than those imposed on ``other types of infrastructure deployments'' 
because it found this requirement to ``depart[ ] from . . . Section 332 
in at least two critical ways.' '' First, the court found that the 
Commission's standard did ``not permit even reasonable regulatory 
distinctions among functionally equivalent, but physically different 
services.'' Second, the Commission's standard ``require[d] the 
comparison of the challenged aesthetic regulation of 5G deployments to 
the regulation of any other infrastructure deployments, while the 
statute only requires a comparison with the regulation of functionally 
equivalent infrastructure deployments.''
    Against this backdrop, we seek comment on whether the Commission 
should clarify what constitutes unreasonable discrimination in the 
siting of wireless facilities and whether certain state and local 
aesthetic requirements unreasonably discriminate against wireless 
facilities. Are such requirements unreasonably limiting the deployment 
of wireless infrastructure, including the deployment of Small Wireless 
Facilities as well as larger macro towers and other wireless 
facilities? Do parties seeking to deploy wireless infrastructure 
facilities frequently encounter state or local aesthetic regulations 
that unreasonably impose requirements on the deployment of wireless 
facilities that are more burdensome than those imposed on functionally 
equivalent infrastructure deployments? If so, we ask commenters to 
provide specific examples of such requirements and the consequences for 
wireless infrastructure deployment.
    We also seek comment on the appropriate standard for detecting 
unreasonable discrimination and whether to adopt that standard into our 
rules. Does the City of Portland decision provide sufficient certainty 
about the scope of permissible distinctions in state and local 
permitting requirements generally and aesthetic regulations in 
particular? What costs and resources would providers need to expend to 
make a showing under the Ninth Circuit standard? Are there other 
factors that should be considered in determining whether discrimination 
is unreasonable in the context of a permitting authority's aesthetic 
requirements for wireless infrastructure?
Regulatory Impediments
    As we describe below, we continue to have concerns that state and 
local authorities are adopting regulations that impede the deployment 
of new and high quality services, and thereby could be in violation of 
the Telecommunications Act and Commission rules. In this section, we 
address the use of siting regulations for the unlawful regulation of 
radiofrequency (RF) emissions, the negative impact of conditional use 
permits on the provision of service, and the continued imposition of de 
facto moratoria by local authorities on wireless providers in violation 
of the Commission's Moratoria Order. We also reaffirm our position that 
restrictions which prohibit densifying or upgrading wireless networks 
result in an effective prohibition of service. Further, we seek comment 
on how state and local regulations on AI may be an effective 
prohibition on wireless providers'

[[Page 55075]]

ability to provide service using AI technologies.
    Setbacks and Radio Frequency Emissions. Our research shows that 
some localities adopted ordinances restricting the placement and manner 
of infrastructure deployment (e.g., through setback provisions and pole 
height requirements) for the purpose of limiting human exposure to RF 
emissions. Other localities require that service providers pay for 
third-party randomized testing of RF emissions, regardless of whether 
there is any objective basis to suspect the tower or antennas may have 
become out of compliance with the Commission's RF emissions rules. We 
seek comment regarding any additional scenarios of RF emissions 
regulation where state and local authorities add barriers to the 
deployment of communications facilities. Commenters should provide 
descriptions of such barriers and evidence of the material impacts upon 
the cost and timing of facility deployment.
    The Commission has exclusive authority to set RF emissions limits. 
Section 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) specifically prohibits state and local 
jurisdictions from regulating deployments based on RF emissions ``to 
the extent that such facilities comply with the Commission's 
regulations concerning such emissions.'' Accordingly, we seek comment 
on whether the Commission should preempt, under sections 253(a) and (d) 
and section 332(c)(7)(B)(iv), these specific state and local ordinances 
(including setback regulations) as unlawful regulation of RF emissions. 
Are there other specific examples of such restrictions that the 
Commission should consider preempting? Should the Commission adopt a 
rule prohibiting state and local government regulation of RF emissions 
which involve setback requirements or establish limits on state and 
local requirements for RF testing? We seek comment on additional 
actions the Commission can take to prevent the use of state and local 
authority to regulate the placement, construction, and modification of 
wireless facilities for unlawful purposes such as RF emissions 
concerns.
    Conditional Use Permits. Outside of the context of facilities 
eligible for section 6409 preemptive relief, some states and localities 
grant applications to build or install wireless communications 
facilities under a conditional use permit (CUP) with conditions, 
including time-limited provisions. Under time-limited CUP approvals, 
once initial approvals have expired, some localities treat renewals as 
opportunities to impose new conditions on previously approved 
facilities, resulting in significant costs for service providers. We 
seek comment on whether state and local conditional CUPs are 
effectively prohibiting the provision of covered services under 
sections 253 and 332(c)(7) when they apply to facilities that not are 
eligible for preemptive relief under section 6409.
    In Ventura County, California, for example, providers requesting 
permit extensions must ``replace or upgrade existing equipment when 
feasible to reduce the facility's visual impacts and improve land use 
compatibility.'' In Carlsbad, California, upon a request for an 
extension of a CUP, the city will review whether the existing 
facility's design continues to meet certain criteria. Do state and 
local CUPs and regulations relating to the extension of such permits, 
like the examples here, result in the effective prohibition of the 
provision of covered service? How frequently do localities change the 
permitting requirements and what are the costs to service providers and 
tower owners of these changes? What are some examples of new conditions 
that localities have imposed at CUP renewals? Are infrastructure 
providers being required to change the design of their facilities to 
accommodate the locality's updated aesthetic preferences? Do the 
unpredictable costs of CUP renewal requirements discourage the 
deployment of needed infrastructure?
    Are the burdens associated with these types of provisions 
significant enough to warrant Commission preemption under section 
253(d)? We seek comment on whether we should preempt the specific local 
regulations listed above and whether they prohibit or have the effect 
of prohibiting covered service. If we preempt state and local CUP 
regulations, how can we ensure that the range of preempted conditions 
is tailored to avoid broadly preempting CUPs altogether? For example, 
should we preempt durational limitations? Should we permit durational 
limitations only if changes in permit conditions are limited to 
legitimate safety concerns and do not include new aesthetic limitations 
on existing facilities? Should we permit new conditions to be imposed 
on previously approved facilities when a natural disaster has altered 
the terrain thereby requiring the new condition? Alternatively, or in 
addition to preemption under section 253(d), should the Commission 
adopt a rule addressing CUPs and the scope of appropriate renewal 
conditions?
    Moratoria. In its 2018 Moratoria Order, the Commission concluded 
that ``state and local moratoria on telecommunications services and 
facilities deployment are barred by section 253(a) of the 
Communications Act because they `prohibit or have the effect of 
prohibiting the ability of any entity to provide any interstate or 
intrastate telecommunications service.' '' The Declaratory Ruling gave 
a brief summary of ways in which state and local governments impose 
moratoria on construction, and found that moratoria fall into two 
categories, express and de facto, both of which are presumptively 
prohibited under section 253(a). Express moratoria are those 
restrictions ``that expressly, by their very terms, prevent or suspend 
the acceptance, processing, or approval of applications or permits 
necessary for deploying telecommunications services and/or 
facilities.'' De facto moratoria are state and local actions ``not 
formally codified by state or local governments as outright 
prohibitions but . . . by their operation, prohibit or have the effect 
of prohibiting deployment of telecommunications services and/or 
telecommunications facilities.'' The difference between de facto 
moratoria and state and local actions that simply result in delay is 
one of degrees. An action becomes a de facto moratorium when it results 
in delay that is so unreasonable or indefinite that it discourages the 
filing of applications or prevents carriers from deploying facilities.
    Despite the Commission's adoption of the Small Cell Order and the 
Moratoria Order, state and local governments continue to engage in the 
practice of moratoria. For example, temporary bans on 5G deployments 
have been adopted by Keene, NH, Hawaii County, HI, and Easton, CT. 
Although not a ban, Farragut, TN passed a resolution asking states and 
the federal government to take the lead in halting 5G deployments until 
the FCC conducts a study of the possible health risks of 5G. We seek 
comment on whether these local ordinances meet the existing definition 
of moratoria or otherwise violate section 253(a) and section 332(c)(7) 
because they appear to prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting 
wireless service and do not appear to meet the requirements of section 
253(b) and (c). We ask commenters to provide additional information 
about whether express or de facto moratoria continue to exist in state 
or local ordinances. For example, do localities impose setbacks of such 
size or frequency that they function as de facto moratoria?
    If these specific resolutions remain in effect, should we preempt 
these resolutions under section 253(d)? Are there other examples of 
resolutions we should consider preempting? Should

[[Page 55076]]

the Commission address either de facto or express moratoria through 
adoption of rules? What other actions should the Commission take to 
address the continued existence of these moratoria?
    Deployment and Densification of New and High Quality Services. The 
continued deployment of new and high quality services is a cornerstone 
of the Communications Act and integral to the provision of 
telecommunications services. When Congress comprehensively amended the 
Communications Act in the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (1996 Act) and 
adopted sections 253 and 332(c)(7), its stated goal was to promote 
competition, improve service quality, and enable the rapid deployment 
of new technologies. Section 706(a) of the 1996 Act, which exhorts the 
Commission to ``encourage the deployment on a reasonable and timely 
basis of advanced telecommunications capability to all Americans,'' 
informs the Commission's exercise of its statutory authority under 
sections 253 and 332(c)(7).''
    5G is the fastest growing segment of the wireless industry and 
these 5G networks integrate voice services as well as new and evolving 
services such as video, mobile gaming, and telehealth. Consequently, 
service providers need to continue to grow their network capacity to 
meet demand. However, there are a limited number of ways to increase 
capacity: acquire more spectrum; develop and deploy more advanced and 
efficient technology; or, reuse existing spectrum through network 
densification. Spectrum is a finite resource with many users and use 
cases, each with unique demands. And while technological advancements 
in efficient network management are vital, they are unpredictable. 
Therefore, in a spectrum constrained environment, densification, which 
permits the efficient reuse of spectrum, is more important than ever to 
satisfy increasing demand.
    It is with this context that we turn to the preemption provisions 
of the Communications Act in the context of deployment densification 
and enhanced capacity for covered services. Under sections 253 and 
332(c)(7), state and local laws may not ``prohibit or have the effect 
of prohibiting the provision of'' telecommunications services or 
personal wireless services. At the core of providing new and high 
quality services is the need to densify networks. Here, the term 
``densification'' refers to the build-out of facilities in support of 
5G services. Such services are reliant upon the siting of additional 
antennas, including macro sites and small wireless facilities, that can 
transmit frequency signals that travel short distances and efficiently 
reuse finite spectrum resources to provide higher bandwidth 
applications. Densification enhances capacity and speed, which are 
necessary to manage growing network congestion. A local regulation 
blocking or delaying network deployments that provide access to new and 
high quality services does not merely govern the ``placement'' of 
antennas, it prevents the provision of the level of service Congress 
intended the Communications Act to protect. It follows, then, that 
section 253's and 332(c)(7)'s preemption of local measures that 
effectively prohibit the provision of covered service must necessarily 
protect a provider's right to upgrade their network through 
densification in order to ensure the continued provision of high 
quality telecommunications services and personal wireless services.
    Jurisdictions that prohibit densification--for example, by 
requiring that a coverage gap exists--overlook that 5G is a different 
technology with unique features and benefits that make it well-suited 
to meet demands for modern communications. Preventing the densification 
of 5G networks can have a significant effect on the functionality of 
telecommunications and personal wireless services, which are integrated 
on 5G devices. Indeed, access to these new technologies are central to 
public safety and emergency services such as transmission of 911 calls 
or other emergency traffic when a network is congested or service is at 
least partially disrupted. 5G networks can provide critical 
communications needs--including better call reliability and management 
of network congestion--for first responders during tragic events such 
as natural disasters or mass shootings when communications needs surge 
and time is of the essence. While prior generations of wireless 
technology may become overloaded in such circumstances--leading to 
audio distortions, delays in connecting calls, or dropped calls--5G 
networks can minimize or eliminate these problems and help people reach 
first responders and family members during emergencies. State and local 
restrictions that prevent densification can pose a real and substantial 
risk to public safety. In a technology-driven sector, the inability to 
timely densify a network can lead to network degradation and can 
effectively prohibit these important covered services.
    We propose to affirm our long-standing understanding that state and 
local regulations that prevent the densification of a network can be an 
effective prohibition of covered services. We seek comment on whether 
we should codify in our rules that an effective prohibition occurs 
where a state or local requirement prevents a service provider from 
improving its service capabilities (such as coverage, capacity, speed, 
latency, and/or reliability) or introducing new services. What types of 
limits could state or local governments place on the densification of a 
network without undermining the statutory goals of protecting against 
network degradation or ensuring access to new or upgraded services? 
Should the Commission adopt presumptions about what would suffice to 
avoid violating sections 253 and 332(c)(7)?
    Our research shows that some localities continue to consider 
factors that prevent the densification of networks. We seek comment on 
whether the Commission should preempt these regulations under section 
253(a) and (d). We also seek assistance in identifying other instances 
where state and local regulations have the effect of preventing 
carriers from meeting evolving consumer demands. What consumer uses are 
prevented or limited by state and local restrictions on densification? 
Could state and local limits on densification inhibit or slow progress 
in building wireless networks capable of supporting advanced 
technologies beyond 5G? Are there state or local regulatory limitations 
on wireless network deployment that otherwise could inhibit U.S. 
leadership in evolving technologies like artificial intelligence or 
future technologies like 6G? And how might those inhibitions affect the 
functionality of telecommunications and personal wireless services? Are 
there additional actions we should consider to help implement the 
Communications Act's goals regarding competition, service quality, and 
rapid deployment of new technologies and covered services while taking 
into account the role that Congress intended for state and local 
authorities?
    Artificial Intelligence. Mobile network operators use AI 
technologies to help manage and optimize the performance of their 
networks. In seeking to leverage these technologies, providers 
increasingly face a complex landscape of state and local regulations on 
AI. We seek comment on whether state and local regulations addressing 
the use of AI may be an effective prohibition on wireless providers' 
ability to provide covered service using AI technologies.
    In July 2025, the White House released ``Winning the Race-America's 
AI Action Plan'' (AI Action Plan) aimed at ensuring U.S. leadership in 
AI technology development. The AI Action Plan directs the Commission to

[[Page 55077]]

``evaluate whether state AI regulations interfere with the agency's 
ability to carry out its obligations and authorities under the 
Communications Act of 1934.'' In particular, the Commission is 
responsible for implementing the Communications Act, including the 
deployment of higher quality service and new technologies for American 
telecommunications consumers. Congress also directed the Commission to 
ensure the efficient and intensive use of the electromagnetic spectrum.
    Accordingly, we seek comment on ways AI tools are, or may be, used 
in communications networks to provide higher quality service and ensure 
the efficient and intensive use of the electromagnetic spectrum for the 
public benefit. Similarly, we seek comment on how state and local 
regulations on AI are, or have the effect of, impeding the advancement 
of telecommunications and personal wireless service. We also request 
that commenters provide legal theories on how the Commission has 
authority under sections 253 and 332(c)(7) to preempt these state and 
local AI regulations.
    We ask commenters to provide information about state and local AI 
regulations that prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the 
provision of covered wireless services, including specific examples 
that may limit providers' ability to use AI tools to improve the 
efficiency and quality of covered services. Are these rules overly 
broad and difficult to implement, and might they prevent deployment of 
AI infrastructure?
Expedited Processes for Resolving Permitting Disputes
    Significant litigation at the state and local level continues to 
impede the Congressional mandate of promoting a pro-competitive, de-
regulatory national policy that accelerates private sector deployment 
of advanced telecommunications and information technologies and service 
to all Americans. Litigation is notoriously costly and time consuming. 
Delays caused by litigation diminish American consumers' access to 
advanced telecommunications and take a toll in the form of lost 
economic and educational opportunities and productivity, the ability to 
communicate, and even harms to health and safety. Conscious of these 
effects, we seek comment on whether there is a role for the Commission 
to play in reducing litigation in the implementation of sections 253 
and 332(c)(7) through alternative dispute resolution procedures to 
resolve disagreements between permitting authorities and siting 
applicants. Are there models within the Commission already that offer a 
template for developing this option for permitting authorities and 
applicants?
    For example, what can be learned or adapted from the Market 
Disputes Resolution Division of the Enforcement Bureau, which serves an 
adjudicatory role in resolving formal complaints against common 
carriers and utility pole owners that are filed by industry 
participants, entities, or other organizations? What might be learned 
or adapted from the structure, operation, and experience of the Rapid 
Broadband Assessment Team (RBAT), which is a joint initiative of the 
Wireline Competition Bureau and the Enforcement Bureau, to efficiently 
and effectively resolve broadband-related pole attachment disputes? 
Should the Commission create a process that is non-public similar to 
RBAT to encourage participation?
    Along these lines, should the Commission create an accelerated 
process or ``rocket docket'' to resolve disputes under section 253(d)? 
Section 253(d) authorizes the Commission to preempt any statute, 
regulation, or legal requirement--after notice and opportunity for 
public comment--if it determines that the requirement violates section 
253(a) or (b). We seek comment on creating an expedited process whereby 
applicants could submit petitions of disputes involving state or local 
legal requirements that may violate 253(a) or (b). Would such a process 
help reduce costly litigation and expedite permitting in a manner 
consistent with the Communications Act?
    We seek comment on the Commission's legal authority to help resolve 
infrastructure siting disputes between permitting authorities and 
applicants for permits to deploy communications infrastructure. How can 
the Commission encourage the use of internal procedures and processes, 
whether through its bureaus or offices or through other institutions 
that offer these services? Are there any other approaches or 
alternatives the Commission should consider to facilitate the 
resolution of infrastructure siting disputes?

Procedural Matters

    Ex Parte Rules. This proceeding shall be treated as a ``permit-but-
disclose'' proceeding in accordance with the Commission's ex parte 
rules. Persons making ex parte presentations must file a copy of any 
written presentation or a memorandum summarizing any oral presentation 
within two business days after the presentation (unless a different 
deadline applicable to the Sunshine period applies). Persons making 
oral ex parte presentations are reminded that memoranda summarizing the 
presentation must (1) list all persons attending or otherwise 
participating in the meeting at which the ex parte presentation was 
made, and (2) summarize all data presented and arguments made during 
the presentation. If the presentation consisted in whole or in part of 
the presentation of data or arguments already reflected in the 
presenter's written comments, memoranda, or other filings in the 
proceeding, then the presenter may provide citations to such data or 
arguments in his or her prior comments, memoranda, or other filings 
(specifying the relevant page and/or paragraph numbers where such data 
or arguments can be found) in lieu of summarizing them in the 
memorandum. Documents shown or given to Commission staff during ex 
parte meetings are deemed to be written ex parte presentations and must 
be filed consistent with 47 CFR 1.1206(b). In proceedings governed by 
47 CFR 1.49(f), or for which the Commission has made available a method 
of electronic filing, written ex parte presentations and memoranda 
summarizing oral ex parte presentations, and all attachments thereto, 
must be filed through the electronic comment filing system available 
for that proceeding and must be filed in their native format (e.g., 
.doc, .xml, .ppt, searchable .pdf). Participants in this proceeding 
should familiarize themselves with the Commission's ex parte rules.

Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

    As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as amended 
(RFA), the Federal Communications Commission (Commission) has prepared 
this Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the policies and 
rules proposed in the NPRM. The Commission requests written public 
comments on this IRFA. Comments must be identified as responses to the 
IRFA and must be filed by the deadlines for comments specified on the 
first page of the NPRM. The Commission will send a copy of the NPRM, 
including this IRFA, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small 
Business Administration (SBA). In addition, the NPRM and IRFA (or 
summaries thereof) will be published in the Federal Register.

D. Need for and Objectives of the Proposed Rules

    In the NPRM, the Commission proposes to revise its rules 
implementing section 6409 of the

[[Page 55078]]

Spectrum Act of 2012 and sections 332(c)(7) and 253 of the 
Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 
1996, to further streamline the wireless permitting process and 
facilitate the rapid buildout of wireless infrastructure. Specifically, 
the NPRM proposes and seeks comment on revising Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(v) 
and (vi) of the Commission's rules regarding concealment elements and 
siting conditions, respectively, in order to formally codify the 
clarifications made in the 2020 Declaratory Ruling. The NPRM proposes 
to codify the guidance and examples the Commission provided in the 2020 
Declaratory Ruling, to illustrate how the rule revisions would operate 
in practice. The NPRM also seeks comment on whether to adopt new rules 
to ensure that state and local permitting regulations do not prohibit 
or have the effect of prohibiting the deployment of wireless 
infrastructure facilities pursuant to sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the 
Communications Act. Specifically, the NPRM seeks comment on state and 
local permitting regulations that: inhibit the deployment of macro cell 
towers and other wireless facilities, impose unreasonable delays on 
permitting approvals, assess disproportionate or otherwise unreasonable 
fees, condition approval on aesthetic requirements or similar criteria, 
and impose other regulatory impediments. The NPRM seeks comment on 
whether to adopt new rules codifying the protections of the 
Communications Act for service providers to densify and upgrade their 
networks. The NPRM seeks comment on whether to adopt new rules 
preempting state and local regulations that violate provisions of the 
Communications Act. In addition, it seeks comment on whether the 
Commission should consider implementing alternative dispute resolution 
procedures to facilitate the resolution of permitting disputes. The 
Commission wishes to ensure that all state and local permitting 
regulations that address the deployment of wireless infrastructure are 
consistent with the requirements of sections 6409 of the Spectrum Act 
and 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act, the legislative intent 
of Congress, and do not prohibit or effectively prohibit the provision 
of telecommunications service.
    Section 6409. The NPRM proposes to revise Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(v) of 
the Commission's rules to define concealment elements as elements of a 
stealth-designed facility intended to make the facility look like 
something other than a wireless tower or base station and to provide 
that a proposed modification would defeat a concealment element if it 
would cause a reasonable person to view the structure's intended 
stealth design as no longer effective after the modification. Next, the 
NPRM proposes to revise Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(vi) of the Commission's 
rules to clarify that neither an aesthetics-related condition nor any 
other condition designed to address the visual impact of a facility may 
be used to prevent modifications specifically allowed under Sec.  
1.6100(b)(7)(i) through (iv) of the rules. The Commission proposes 
these revisions to help reduce permitting disputes, which in turn would 
promote expedited deployments.
    Additionally, the NPRM seeks comment on amending Sec.  1.6100 of 
the Commission's rules to address the relationship between time-limited 
conditional use permits (CUPs) and section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act. 
Some jurisdictions have ordinances that require tower owners to renew 
wireless tower facility permits after 10 years. In some cases, the 
local governments have imposed new conditions on permit renewals for 
deployments that were previously found to be eligible facilities 
requests under section 6409(a). The NPRM seeks comment on whether the 
Commission should adopt a rule that clarifies that, once a particular 
deployment is found to be an eligible facilities request and the permit 
is granted by a state or local jurisdiction, the state or local 
jurisdiction may not seek to impose new conditions when reviewing the 
deployment as part of a permit renewal process. The NPRM seeks comment 
on whether such ordinances that impact eligible facilities requests 
conflict with section 6409(a).
    Sections 332(c)(7) and 253. The NPRM seeks comment on whether to 
extend any of the Small Cell Order reforms or any other measures the 
Commission may adopt in this proceeding to macro cell towers and other 
wireless facilities. While the Small Cell Order focused on state and 
local permitting requirements that impact the installation of Small 
Wireless Facilities, the Commission is equally interested in ensuring 
the timely buildout of macro cell towers and other wireless facilities, 
and removing regulatory obstacles that may unlawfully delay these 
buildouts. The Commission also seeks comment on how and whether to 
clarify the definition of a macro cell tower, and comment on what state 
or local permitting issues commonly delay the buildout of macro cell 
and other wireless facility deployments.
    Next, the NPRM addresses issues associated with its shot clock 
rules. The Commission initially adopted shot clock rules in its 2009 
Declaratory Ruling, finding that unreasonable delays in the siting 
process ``impede[d] the promotion of advanced services and competition 
that Congress deemed critical to the Telecommunications Act of 1996,'' 
it established a defined time period or ``shot clock'' framework to 
effectuate the ``reasonable period of time'' provision of section 
332(c)(7)(B)(ii). This shot clock approach was intended to provide 
clarity and a degree of certainty both to the applicants for siting 
permits as well as to state and local permitting authorities. In the 
Small Cell Order, the Commission adopted a new set of shot clocks 
calibrated to the unique features of Small Wireless Facilities. The 
Commission adopted a presumptive 60-day shot clock for reviewing Small 
Wireless Facility collocations and a presumptive 90-day shot clock for 
Small Wireless Facilities to be attached to a newly constructed 
structure. The Commission also codified the presumptive 90-day and 150-
day shot clocks developed in the 2009 Declaratory Ruling, for a total 
of four shot clocks. The shot clock rules preserved a siting agency's 
ability to rebut the presumptive reasonableness of any of the 
applicable shots clocks based on a specific situation. The NPRM seeks 
comment on how well the shot clocks codified in the Commission's rules 
have helped expedite the delivery of advanced communications services. 
It also seeks comment on whether further refinement through a broader 
number of shot clocks for specific scenarios is warranted.
    The Commission also previously codified its determination in the 
Wireless Infrastructure Order that a shot clock begins to run when an 
application is submitted, not when it is deemed complete by the 
permitting authority. The NPRM seeks comment on how well the 
notification of incompleteness feature of the shot clock framework is 
functioning as a means to remove complications in the smooth processing 
of incomplete applications.
    Regarding remedies for shot clock violations, the Commission 
determined violations of the shot clocks for Small Wireless Facilities 
constitute not only a section 332(c)(7)(B)(v) ``failure to act,'' but 
also a ``presumptive prohibition on the provision of personal wireless 
services within the meaning of section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II).'' The 
Commission noted that ``there may be merit'' to a ``deemed granted'' 
remedy but it declined to adopt this remedy because it determined that 
the shot clock

[[Page 55079]]

framework that it had codified ``should address the concerns raised by 
a `deemed granted' remedy.'' The Commission also indicated that if its 
approach ``proves insufficient'' it may again consider adopting a 
deemed granted approach. The NPRM seeks comment on whether shot clocks 
are preventing unreasonable delay or whether the Commission should 
reconsider its prior decision not to adopt a deemed granted remedy.
    Next, the NPRM addresses issues associated with fees imposed by 
state and local permitting authorities to process permit applications. 
In the Small Cell Order and the Verizon Clark County Dismissal Order, 
the Commission explained that localities have the burden of proving the 
reasonableness of their fees, and that fees for use of a right-of-way 
can constitute an effective prohibition of service. The NPRM seeks 
comment on state and local fees. Service providers continue to face a 
range of state and local fees that may increase unpredictably over the 
course of a project. These state and local fees take the form of 
initial one-time fees, annual recurring fees, and gross revenue fees. 
The NPRM seeks comment on whether to preempt a number of local 
regulations that impose these types of fees as prohibiting or having 
the effect of prohibiting service under sections 253(a) and 332(c)(7) 
and also seeks comment on preempting the fee regulations of other local 
permitting authorities whose fees mirror those described in the NPRM. 
The NPRM seeks comment on whether to preempt the fee regulations listed 
in the NPRM both for Small Wireless Facilities and other larger 
facilities as violating sections 253(a) and 332(c)(7). The NPRM also 
seeks comment on whether the Commission should take additional steps to 
address fees including whether to adopt rules codifying the fee 
guidance of the Small Cell Order and the Verizon Clark County Dismissal 
Order and whether to extend application of the previous clarifications 
on fees to macro and other wireless facilities.
    Next, the NPRM seeks comment on how state and local aesthetic 
requirements are affecting the deployment of wireless infrastructure. 
In the Small Cell Order, the Commission found that that ``[l]ike fees, 
compliance with aesthetic requirements imposes costs on providers, and 
the impact on their ability to provide service is just the same as the 
impact of fees.'' The Commission concluded that, to be permissible 
under section 332(c)(7), aesthetic requirements had to be reasonable, 
no more burdensome than those applied to other types of infrastructure 
deployments, and objective and published in advance.
    In City of Portland, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit 
upheld most of the Small Cell Order, but vacated the requirement that 
local aesthetic regulations for Small Wireless Facilities be ``no more 
burdensome'' than those imposed on other technologies, finding that 
this requirement was not consistent with the ``more lenient statutory 
standard that regulations not `unreasonably discriminate.' '' The court 
also found that the requirement that local aesthetic regulations be 
``objective'' was ``neither adequately defined nor its purpose 
adequately explained.'' The court held that section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(I) 
of the Communications Act ``permits some difference in the treatment of 
different providers, so long as the treatment is reasonable'' and that 
to ``establish unreasonable discrimination, providers `must show that 
they have been treated differently from other providers whose 
facilities are similarly situated in terms of the structure, placement 
or cumulative impact as the facilities in question.' ''
    In response to this decision, the NPRM seeks comment on whether the 
Commission should revisit the issue of what constitutes unreasonable 
discrimination in the siting of wireless facilities, and in particular, 
whether certain state and local aesthetic requirements unreasonably 
discriminate against wireless facilities. The NPRM also seeks comments 
on whether the City of Portland decision addressing the meaning of 
``unreasonable discrimination'' under section 332(c)(7) provides 
sufficient certainty about the scope of permissible distinctions in 
state and local permitting requirements generally and aesthetic 
regulations, in particular. The NPRM asks whether additional guidance 
is needed with regard to the scope of permissible aesthetic 
regulations, and whether the Commission should codify the test 
articulated by the 9th Circuit, into its rules.
    Next, the NPRM addresses state and local regulations associated 
with radiofrequency (RF). Although any RF-based state or local wireless 
infrastructure deployment restrictions are explicitly prohibited by 
section 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) of the Communications Act, the Commission 
finds that state and local authorities continue to adopt such 
regulations--particularly within the context of local setback 
restrictions for siting wireless communications facilities. The NPRM 
seeks comment on whether the Commission should adopt rules to address 
this practice of some state and local permitting authorities. The NPRM 
also seeks comment on whether the Commission should preempt these types 
of regulations, and the Commission's legal authority for doing so.
    Next, the NPRM seeks comment on the impact of conditional use 
permits on the rapid deployment of wireless infrastructure. The 
Commission has found that numerous localities impose conditional use 
permits on tower builders with strict durational limits. When the 
duration of the permit is over, the permit renewal process may require 
expensive changes to or complete removal of the already constructed 
infrastructure. These permits inject uncertainty into the network 
planning process and impose large costs on tower builders and service 
providers. The NPRM also seeks comment on whether the Commission should 
take action to preempt state and local conditional use permits under 
section 253(d) of the Communications Act. In the alternative, the 
Commission seeks comment on whether to adopt a rule narrowing the scope 
of conditional use permits in order to limit unlawful conditional use 
permits.
    Next, the NPRM considers the persistence of state and local 
authorities imposing moratoria on the buildout of wireless 
infrastructure. Despite the Commission stating in the Moratoria Order 
that moratoria are barred by section 253(a) of the Communications Act 
because they effectively prohibit the ability of any entity to provide 
telecommunication services, state and local governments continue to 
engage in the practice of moratoria. The NPRM seeks comment on whether, 
pursuant to section 253(d), to preempt local ordinances banning 5G 
equipment. It also seeks comment on what further actions the Commission 
can take to address the phenomenon of de facto moratoria.
    Next, the NPRM addresses the issue of network upgrades and 
densification. It is the stated purpose of the Telecommunications Act 
to promote competition, improve service quality, and to enable the 
rapid deployment of new technologies. The Act contains several 
provisions to advance this goal including section 706 which imposes on 
the Commission an affirmative duty to ``encourage the deployment on a 
reasonable and timely basis of advanced telecommunications capability 
to all Americans,'' and section 332(c)(7)(B)(i)(II) which provides that 
state and local regulations may not have the effect of prohibiting the 
provision of

[[Page 55080]]

wireless service. In the Small Cell Order, the Commission clarified 
that, consistent with the intent of Congress in passing the 
Communications Act to promote the rapid deployment of new technologies, 
state and local regulations that prevent service providers from 
upgrading their networks or densifying their networks constitute an 
effective prohibition of service. Despite this, numerous jurisdictions, 
not recognizing that 5G networks are a new technology with distinct 
network infrastructure needs, continue to prevent service providers 
from densifying or upgrading their networks where an outdated legacy 
network already exists. The NPRM seeks to affirm the Commission's 
historic understanding that state and local regulations that prevent 
the densification of a network can be an effective prohibition of 
protected services. The NPRM also seeks comment on whether to codify 
within our rules that state and local restrictions that prohibit the 
densification and upgrading of existing networks constitute an 
effective prohibition of service under sections 332(c)(7) and 253(a) of 
the Communications Act, and seek comment on what presumptions the 
Commission can adopt to preserve state and local authority while still 
protecting the right of providers to densify and upgrade their 
networks. The NPRM seeks comment on whether the Commission should 
preempt restrictions that prohibit the upgrading and densification of 
networks under sections 253(a) and (d).
    In the NPRM, in order to ensure Americans' have access to high 
equality services and the latest technology, the Commission asks 
commenters to identify ways in which AI tools are used in 
communications networks. The NPRM further requests comment on how state 
and local regulations on AI are, or have the effect of, impeding the 
advancement of telecommunications and personal wireless service. The 
NPRM also requests that commenters provide legal theories on how the 
Commission has authority under sections 253 and 332(c)(7) to preempt 
these state and local AI regulations.
    Finally, the NPRM turns its attention to whether, in order to 
reduce costly litigation and to accelerate permitting, the Commission 
should explore alternative dispute resolution procedures that could 
facilitate the resolution of disagreements between permitting 
authorities and siting applicants and seeks comment on what a 
successful alternative dispute resolution might look like. The NPRM 
also seeks comment on how permitting disputes could be put on an 
Accelerated Docket for resolution. In addition, the NPRM seeks comment 
on whether the Commission has legal authority to engage in facilitating 
infrastructure siting disputes between permitting authorities and 
applicants for permits to deploy communications infrastructure.
    These proposed revisions will satisfy Congress's intent and meet 
the Commission's statutory responsibility to enhance regulatory 
certainty, reduce disputes and litigation in the permitting process, 
and facilitate deployment of 5G and other advanced wireless services 
throughout the country in a competitive marketplace for the advantage 
all Americans.

E. Legal Basis

    The proposed action is authorized pursuant to sections 1, 4(i)-(j), 
7, 201, 253, 301, 303, 309, 319, and 332 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, and sections 6003 and 6409 of the Middle Class Tax 
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i)-
(j), 157, 201, 253, 301, 303, 309, 319, 332, 1403, 1455(a).

F. Description and Estimate of the Number of Small Entities to Which 
the Proposed Rules Will Apply

    The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of, and where 
feasible, an estimate of the number of small entities that may be 
affected by the rules adopted herein. The RFA generally defines the 
term ``small entity'' as having the same meaning as under the Small 
Business Act. In addition, the term ``small business'' has the same 
meaning as the term ``small business concern'' under the Small Business 
Act.'' A ``small business concern'' is one which: (1) is independently 
owned and operated; (2) is not dominant in its field of operation; and 
(3) satisfies any additional criteria established by the SBA.
    Our actions, over time, may affect small entities that are not 
easily categorized at present. We therefore describe three broad groups 
of small entities that could be directly affected by our actions. In 
general, a small business is an independent business having fewer than 
500 employees. These types of small businesses represent 99.9% of all 
businesses in the United States, which translates to 34.75 million 
businesses. Next, ``small organizations'' are not-for-profit 
enterprises that are independently owned and operated and not dominant 
their field. While we do not have data regarding the number of non-
profits that meet that criteria, over 99 percent of nonprofits have 
fewer than 500 employees. Finally, ``small governmental jurisdictions'' 
are defined as cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school 
districts, or special districts with populations of less than fifty 
thousand. Based on the 2022 U.S. Census of Governments data, we 
estimate that at least 48,724 out of 90,835 local government 
jurisdictions have a population of less than 50,000.
    The actions taken in the NPRM will apply to small entities in the 
industries identified in the chart below by their six-digit North 
American Industry Classification System codes and corresponding SBA 
size standard.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       % Small
        Regulated industry           NAICS           SBA size standard           Total      Small      firms in
                                      code                                       firms      firms      industry
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All Other Information Services...     519190  1,500 employees................        704        556        78.98
All Other Telecommunications.....     517810  $40 million....................      1,079      1,039        96.29
Cable and Other Subscription          515210  $47 million....................        378        149        39.42
 Programming.
Media Streaming Distribution          516210  $47 million....................      6,417      5,710        88.98
 Services, Social Networks, and
 Other Media Networks and Content
 Providers.
Radio and Television Broadcasting     334220  1,250 employees................        656        624        95.12
 and Wireless Communications
 Equipment Manufacturing.
Satellite Telecommunications.....     517410  $47 million....................        275        242        88.00
Telecommunications Resellers.....     517121  1,500 employees................      1,386      1,375        99.21
Wired Telecommunications Carriers     517111  1,500 employees................      3,054      2,964        97.05
Wireless Telecommunications           517112  1,500 employees................      2,893      2,837        98.06
 Carriers (except Satellite).
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


[[Page 55081]]

    Based on currently available U.S. Census data regarding the 
estimated number of small firms in each identified industry, we 
conclude that the adopted rules will impact a substantial number of 
small entities. Where available, we provide additional information 
regarding the number of potentially affected entities in the above 
identified industries, and information for other affected entities, as 
follows.

                2024 Universal Service Monitoring Report Telecommunications Service Provider Data
                                           [Data as of December 2023]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        SBA size standard (1,500 employees)
                                                                 -----------------------------------------------
                         Affected entity                            Total # FCC
                                                                     form 499A      Small firms       % Small
                                                                      filers                         entities
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Competitive Local Exchange Carriers (CLECs).....................           3,729           3,576           95.90
Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (Incumbent LECs)..............           1,175             917           78.04
Interexchange Carriers (IXCs)...................................             113              95           84.07
Local Exchange Carriers (LECs)..................................           4,904           4,493           91.62
Local Resellers.................................................             222             217           97.75
Other Toll Carriers.............................................              74              71           95.95
Prepaid Card Providers..........................................              47              47          100.00
Toll Resellers..................................................             411             398           96.84
Telecommunications Resellers....................................             633             615           97.16
Wired Telecommunications Carriers...............................           4,682           4,276           91.33
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite).........             585             498           85.13
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   Broadband Internet Access Providers
      [Internet Access Services Report: Status as of June 30, 2024]
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Number of providers of
              Affected entity                 connections over 200 kbps
                                              in at least one direction
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Wired Broadband Internet Access Service                            2,204
 Providers (Wired ISPs)....................
Wireless Broadband Internet Access Service                         1,209
 Providers (Wireless ISPs or WISPs)........
------------------------------------------------------------------------

G. Description of Economic Impact and Projected Reporting, 
Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements for Small Entities

    The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of the projected 
reporting, recordkeeping and other compliance requirements of the 
proposed rule, including an estimate of the classes of small entities 
which will be subject to the requirement and the type of professional 
skills necessary for preparation of the report or record. At this time, 
the we do not believe that the proposed rules in the NPRM, if adopted, 
will create any new reporting, recordkeeping, or other compliance 
requirements for small and other entities preparing eligible facilities 
requests under sections 6409(a), 253, or 332(c)(7) as entities are 
already required to submit construction proposals outlining the work to 
be done regardless of whether the project qualifies as an eligible 
facilities request under sections 6409(a), 253, and 332(c)(7). In 
addition, for these reasons we do not anticipate that any action we 
take on the matters raised in the NPRM will require small entities to 
hire additional attorneys, engineers, consultants, or other 
professionals to comply with the proposed revised rules.
    We anticipate that the proposed rule changes on which the NPRM 
seeks comment would help reduce the economic impact on small entities 
that may need to deploy wireless infrastructure by reducing the cost 
and delay associated with the deployment of such infrastructure and by 
reducing costly litigation. To assist the Commission in its evaluation 
of the economic impact on small entities, and of the proposed rule 
changes generally, and to better explore options and alternatives, the 
NPRM asks small entities to discuss any benefits or drawbacks 
associated with making the proposed rule changes in their comments. The 
Commission expects to consider more fully the economic impact on small 
entities following its review of comments filed in response to the 
NPRM, including costs and benefits information.

H. Discussion of Significant Alternatives Considered That Minimize the 
Significant Economic Impact on Small Entities

    The RFA directs agencies to provide a description of any 
significant alternatives to the proposed rules that would accomplish 
the stated objectives of applicable statutes, and minimize any 
significant economic impact on small entities. The discussion is 
required to include alternatives such as: ``(1) the establishment of 
differing compliance or reporting requirements or timetables that take 
into account the resources available to small entities; (2) the 
clarification, consolidation, or simplification of compliance and 
reporting requirements under the rules for such small entities; (3) the 
use of performance rather than design standards; and (4) an exemption 
from coverage of the rule, or any part thereof, for such small 
entities.
    The NPRM seeks comment on proposed changes to the Commission's 
existing rules implementing section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act and 
sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act, as well as 
adopting new rules implementing sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the 
Communications Act. The purpose of these changes is to reduce economic 
impact and regulatory burden on small entities and other applicants. In 
this regard, the NPRM seeks comment on

[[Page 55082]]

different approaches or alternatives the Commission might take in 
streamlining compliance with section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act and 
sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act. For instance, the 
Commission may adopt rules implementing section 6409(a) of the Spectrum 
Act and sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications Act 
establishing that, once a particular deployment is found to be an 
eligible facilities request and the permit is granted by a state or 
local jurisdiction, that state or local jurisdiction may not seek to 
impose new conditions when reviewing the deployment as part of a permit 
renewal process. The Commission is also evaluating whether to adopt a 
deemed granted remedy for violations of its shot-clock rules, and 
whether to codify rules that state and local restrictions that prohibit 
the densification and upgrading of existing networks constitute an 
effective prohibition of service prohibited under sections 253(a) and 
332(c)(7) of the Communications Act.
    In the NPRM, the Commission also seeks comment on proposals to 
revise the concealment elements and siting conditions provisions of 
Sec.  1.6100 of its rules to provide more clarity to parties involved 
in the process of obtaining local approval for siting of wireless 
infrastructure and to enable small entities and others to navigate the 
permitting process more effectively. In making its determinations for 
the proposed rules in the NPRM, the Commission considered alternatives 
intended to minimize significant economic impact on small entities. For 
example, we considered other potential changes to the application 
review process, such as timeframes for review, that would help clarify 
and expedite the process and thereby reduce economic burdens on small 
entities seeking to comply with the revised rules that are ultimately 
adopted. In developing the proposed rule revisions for concealment 
elements, we considered to what extent disputes about concealment 
elements had on efforts to deploy wireless infrastructure and what 
other approaches could be considered. Lastly, regarding the proposed 
rule revisions for siting conditions, we considered factors such as the 
time to complete deployment, cost impacts, and the potential delays in 
satisfying coverage demand and/or enhancements for consumers.
    The NPRM seeks comment on whether to revise existing rules and/or 
adopt new rules under sections 253 and 332(c)(7) of the Communications 
Act to protect the rights of service providers to densify and upgrade 
their networks, to establish a ``deemed granted'' remedy for shot-clock 
violations, and to prohibit fees that constitute an effective 
prohibition of service or otherwise violate the guidance of the Small 
Cell Order. It seeks comment on whether to offer clarifying guidance on 
the meaning of ``unreasonable discrimination'' under section 332 of the 
Communications Act. The NPRM also seeks comment on whether to preempt 
under sections 253(a) and (d) and section 332(c)(7)(B)(iv) of the 
Communications Act state and local regulations predicated on RF 
emissions, ordinances that permit or require the use of conditional use 
permits, and ordinances or resolutions that impose moratoria on the 
buildout of wireless infrastructure. In the alternative, the Commission 
seeks comment on whether to adopt a rule narrowing the scope of 
conditional use permits in order to limit conditional use permit abuse. 
The NPRM seeks comment on (1) whether to preempt a number of local 
regulations that impose certain fees on applicants seeking to build 
wireless infrastructure as prohibiting or having the effect of 
prohibiting service under sections 253(a) and 332(c)(7); (2) whether to 
preempt the fee regulations listed in the NPRM both for Small Wireless 
Facilities and other larger facilities as violating sections 253(a) and 
332(c)(7); and (3) whether the Commission could and should offer an 
alternative dispute resolution option to reduce litigation between 
permit applicants and permitting authorities.
    The Commission will decide what actions it should take based on the 
record developed to the NPRM. Part of the decisional process will 
include evaluating the impact of these decisions on small entities and 
what alternatives it might adopt to lessen significant economic impact 
and regulatory burden on small entities while complying with the 
requirements of sections 6409(a), 253, and 332(c)(7) of the 
Communications Act. Alternative proposals and approaches from 
commenters will further develop the record and could help the 
Commission further minimize the economic impact on small entities. The 
Commission's evaluation of the comments filed in this proceeding will 
shape the final conclusions it reaches, the final alternatives it 
considers, and the actions it ultimately takes to minimize any 
significant economic impact that may occur on small entities from the 
final rules.

I. Federal Rules That May Duplicate, Overlap, or Conflict With the 
Proposed Rules

    None.

Ordering Clauses

    Accordingly, it is ordered that, pursuant to sections 1, 4(i)-(j), 
7, 201, 253, 301, 303, 309, 319, and 332 of the Communications Act of 
1934, as amended, and sections 6003 and 6409 of the Middle Class Tax 
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 151, 154(i)-
(j), 157, 201, 253, 301, 303, 309, 319, 332, 1403, 1455(a) this Notice 
of Proposed Rulemaking in WT Docket No. 25-276 is adopted.
    It is further ordered that, pursuant to applicable procedures set 
forth in Sec. Sec.  1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's rules, 47 CFR 
1.415, 1.419, interested parties may file comments on the Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking on or before 30 days after publication in the 
Federal Register, and reply comments on or before 45 days after 
publication in the Federal Register.
    It is further ordered that the Commission's Office of the Secretary 
shall send a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, including the 
Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, to the Chief Counsel for 
Advocacy of the Small Business Administration.

List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 1

    Administrative practice and procedure.

Federal Communications Commission.
Marlene Dortch,
Secretary, Office of the Secretary.

Proposed Rules

    For the reasons discussed in the preamble, the Federal 
Communications Commission proposes to amend 47 CFR part 1 as follows:

PART 1--PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE

0
1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  47 U.S.C. chs. 2, 5, 9, 13; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 47 
U.S.C. 1754, unless otherwise noted.

0
2. Section 1.6100 is amended by revising paragraphs (b)(7)(v) and (vi) 
as follows:


Sec.  1.6100  Wireless Facility Modifications.

* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (7) * * *
    (v) It would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible 
support structure. For purposes of this paragraph, ``concealment 
elements'' are

[[Page 55083]]

elements intended to make a stealth-designed facility look like 
something other than a wireless tower or base station. A proposed 
modification would defeat the concealment elements of the eligible 
support structure if it would cause a reasonable person to view the 
structure's intended stealth design as ineffective; or
    Example 1 to paragraph (v): Placement of coaxial cable on the 
outside of a stealth-designed facility would be unlikely to render the 
intended stealth design of the facility ineffective at the distance 
from which individuals would view a facility because of the typically 
small size of such cabling.
    Example 2 to paragraph (v): A modification that involves a change 
in color would only defeat concealment if it would cause reasonable 
person to view the intended stealth design of the underlying facility 
as no longer effective. For instance, if new equipment is shielded by 
an existing shroud that is not being modified, then the color of the 
equipment is irrelevant because it is not visible to the public and 
would not render an intended concealment ineffective.
    Example 3 to paragraph (v): For a stealth-designed facility, (such 
as a wireless facility designed to resemble a pine tree), that was 
originally conditioned on the facility being hidden behind a tree line, 
a proposed modification that would make the facility visible above the 
tree line would not defeat the concealment elements of the facility 
under Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(v) if a reasonable person would continue to 
view the intended stealth design as effective. The requirement that the 
facility be hidden behind a tree line is not a feature of a stealth-
designed facility, but rather an aesthetic condition that falls under 
Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(vi).
    (vi) It does not comply with conditions associated with the siting 
approval of the construction or modification of the eligible support 
structure or base station equipment, provided, however, that this 
limitation does not apply to any modification that is noncompliant only 
in a manner that would not exceed the thresholds identified in 
paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section. Any condition under 
this paragraph (b)(7)(vi), including aesthetics-related conditions or 
any other conditions designed to address the visual impact of a 
facility, cannot be used to prevent modifications allowed under Sec.  
1.6100(b)(7)(i) through (iv).
    Example 1 to paragraph (vi): If a locality imposes an aesthetics-
related condition that specifies a three-foot shroud cover for a three-
foot antenna, the locality could not prevent the replacement of the 
original antenna with a four-foot antenna otherwise permissible under 
Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(i) because the new antenna could not fit in the 
original shroud. If there was express evidence that the shroud was a 
condition of approval, the locality could enforce its shrouding 
condition if the provider could reasonably install a four-foot shroud 
to cover the new four-foot antenna. The locality also could enforce a 
shrouding requirement that was not size-specific and did not limit 
modifications allowed under Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(i) through (iv).
    Example 2 to paragraph (vi): Existing walls and fences around non-
camouflaged towers would be considered aesthetic conditions and not 
concealment elements. However, if there was express evidence that the 
wall or fence was a condition of approval, the locality may require a 
provider to extend the wall or fence to continue covering the 
equipment.
    Example 3 to paragraph (vi): In regard to a tower that was 
originally approved conditioned on being hidden behind a tree line, a 
proposed modification within the thresholds of Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(i) 
through (iv) that would make the tower visible above the tree line 
would be permitted under Sec.  1.6100(b)(7)(vi), assuming the provider 
cannot reasonably replace a grove of mature trees with a grove of 
taller mature trees to maintain the absolute hiding of the tower.
* * * * *
[FR Doc. 2025-21620 Filed 11-28-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6712-01-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>