<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 227 (Friday, November 28, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 227 (Friday, November 28, 2025)]
[Notices]
[Pages 54877-54880]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-21358]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

Office of the Secretary

[Docket No. DOT-OST-2025-1524]


Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records

AGENCY: Office of the Departmental Chief Information Officer, Office of 
the Secretary of Transportation, DOT.

ACTION: Notice of a new system of records.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, the United States 
Department of Transportation (DOT) proposes a new system of records 
titled, ``Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration 
DOT/FAA 859, Passport and Visa Tracking Records.'' This system of 
records allows the FAA to collect, use, and maintain information needed 
to track progress on passport and visa applications, and expiration 
dates on official passports for employees and members of the public, 
such as an employee's dependent(s).

DATES: Submit comments on or before December 29, 2025. The Department 
may publish an amended Systems of Records Notice (hereafter ``Notice'') 
in light of any comments received. This new system will be effective 
immediately. The routine uses will be effective December 29, 2025.

ADDRESSES: You may submit comments identified by docket number DOT-OST-
2025-1524 by any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Federal e-Rulemaking Portal: <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>. 
Follow the instructions for submitting comments.
    <bullet> Mail: Docket Management Facility, U.S. Department of 
Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, West Building Ground Floor, 
Room W12-140, Washington, DC 20590-0001.
    <bullet> Hand Delivery or Courier: West Building Ground Floor, Room 
W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. ET, Monday 
through Friday, except Federal Holidays.
    <bullet> Fax: (202) 493-2251.
    Instructions: You must include the agency name and docket number 
DOT-OST-2025-1524. All comments received will be posted without change 
to <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>, including any personal information 
provided.
    Privacy Act: Anyone is able to search the electronic form of all 
comments received in any of our dockets by the name of the individual 
submitting the comment (or signing the comment, if submitted on behalf 
of an association, business, labor union, etc.).
    Docket: For access to the docket to read background documents or 
comments received, go to <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a> or to the street 
address listed above. Follow the online instructions for accessing the 
docket.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For questions, please contact: Karyn 
Gorman, Departmental Chief Privacy Officer, Privacy Office, Department 
of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590; <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#7e0e0c17081f1d073e1a110a50191108"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="4434362d3225273d04202b306a232b32">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>; or 202-366-
3140.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Background

    The Office of Policy, International Affairs and Environment, at the 
FAA receives passport and visa applications from FAA employees who 
travel or work overseas on official government business. Employees who 
travel overseas on official government business are typically assigned 
official or red cover passports, whereas those employees who work 
overseas and are accompanied by their dependent(s) are assigned 
diplomatic or black cover passports. Data from the passport and visa 
applications is entered into the FAA information system to track the 
progress of these applications and the expiration dates of official and 
diplomatic passports. The Office of Policy, International Affairs and 
Environment, submits passport applications to the Department of State 
and visa applications to the respective embassies in Washington, DC for 
processing. The FAA does not retain any application related 
documentation submitted to them by employees and only tracks the 
progress of these applications.
    In order to track passport and visa applications, the FAA collects 
the names, dates of birth, passport and visa numbers, passport and visa 
issuance and expiration dates, issuing country for visas, country(ies) 
visited, email addresses, positions/titles, organizations, lines of 
business, dates of official travel and various dates throughout the 
passport and visa application process (for tracking purposes) from FAA 
employees and members of the public, such as employees' dependent(s). 
Information on an employee's minor dependents is obtained directly from 
the employee.

[[Page 54878]]

Privacy Act

    The Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) governs how the Federal Government 
collects, maintains, and uses personally identifiable information (PII) 
in a System of Records. A ``System of Records'' is a group of any 
records under the control of a federal agency from which information 
about individuals is retrieved by name or other personal identifier. 
The Privacy Act requires each agency to publish in the Federal Register 
a System of Records Notice (SORN) identifying and describing each 
System of Records the agency maintains, including the purposes for 
which the agency uses PII in the system, the routine uses for which the 
agency discloses such information outside the agency, and how 
individuals to whom a Privacy Act record pertains can exercise their 
rights under the Privacy Act (e.g., to determine if the system contains 
information about them and to contest inaccurate information). In 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(r), DOT has provided a report of this 
system of records to the Office of Management and Budget and to 
Congress.

SYSTEM NAME AND NUMBER:
    Department of Transportation (DOT)/Federal Aviation Administration 
(FAA) 859 Passport and Visa Tracking Records.

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION:
    Unclassified, Sensitive

SYSTEM LOCATION:
    The primary hosting site is the Tier Point Olive Data Center, 1111 
Olive Street, St. Louis, MO 63101. The alternate hosting site is the 
Tier Point Bellevue Data Center, 1001 North Fort Crook Road, Bellevue, 
NE 68005.

SYSTEM MANAGER(S):
    Director, National Labor and Employee Relations (LER) Systems and 
Programs, AHL-400, Office of Labor and Employee Relations, Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA), 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, 
DC 20591; Phone: 202-267-0931.

AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM:
    22 U.S.C. 211a.

PURPOSE(S) OF THE SYSTEM:
    To allow the FAA to track the passport and visa applications as 
well as expiration dates of official and diplomatic passports of 
employees and members of the public, such as employee's dependent(s).

CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM:
    FAA employees and members of the public, such as employees' 
dependent(s).

CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM:
    Records in this system includes names, dates of birth, passport and 
visa numbers, passport and visa issuance and expiration dates, issuing 
country for visas, country(ies) visited, email addresses, positions/
titles, organizations, lines of business, dates of official travel and 
various dates for the passport and visa application process (for 
tracking purposes).

RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES:
    Records are obtained from current FAA employees and members of the 
public, such as employee's adult dependent(s). Information on an 
employee's minor dependents is obtained directly from the employee.

ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES 
OF USERS AND THE PURPOSES OF SUCH USES:
    In addition to other disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 
552a(b) of the Privacy Act, all or a portion of the records or 
information contained in this system may be disclosed outside DOT as a 
routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows:
    1. In the event that a system of records maintained by DOT to carry 
out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, 
whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising 
by general statute or particular program pursuant thereto, the relevant 
records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to 
the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, 
charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such 
violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or 
rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto.
    2. A record from this system of records may be disclosed, as a 
routine use, to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, 
criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent 
information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain 
information relevant to a DOT decision concerning the hiring or 
retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the 
letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other 
benefit.
    3. A record from this system of records may be disclosed, as a 
routine use, to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in 
connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of 
a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, 
the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or 
other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the 
information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's 
decision on the matter.
    4a. Routine Use for Disclosure for Use in Litigation. It shall be a 
routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them 
to the Department of Justice, or other Federal agencies conducting 
litigation when (a) DOT, or any agency thereof, or (b) Any employee of 
DOT or any agency thereof in their official capacity, or (c) Any 
employee of DOT or any agency thereof, in their individual capacity, 
where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee, 
or (d) The United States or any agency thereof, where DOT determines 
that litigation likely to affect the United States, is a party to 
litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such 
records by the Department of Justice or other Federal agency conducting 
the litigation is deemed by DOT to be relevant and necessary in the 
litigation, provided, however, that in each case, DOT determines that 
disclosure of the records in the litigation is a use of the information 
contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which 
the records were collected.
    4b. Routine Use for Agency Disclosure in Other Proceedings. It 
shall be a routine use of records in this system to disclose them in 
proceedings before any court or adjudicative or administrative body 
before which DOT or any agency thereof appears when (a) DOT, or any 
agency thereof, or (b) Any employee of DOT or any agency thereof in 
their official capacity, or (c) Any employee of DOT or any agency 
thereof in their individual capacity where DOT has agreed to represent 
the employee, or (d) The United States or any agency thereof, where DOT 
determines that the proceeding is likely to affect the United States, 
is a party to the proceeding, or has an interest in such proceeding, 
and DOT determines that use of such records is relevant and necessary 
in the proceeding, provided, however, that in each case, DOT determines 
that disclosure of the records in the proceeding is a use of the 
information contained in the records that is compatible with the 
purpose for which the records were collected.
    5. The information contained in this system of records will be 
disclosed to the Office of Management and Budget, OMB in connection 
with the review of

[[Page 54879]]

private relief legislation as set forth in OMB Circular No. A-19 at any 
stage of the legislative coordination and clearance process as set 
forth in that Circular.
    6. Disclosure may be made to a Congressional office from the record 
of an individual in response to an inquiry from the Congressional 
office made at the request of that individual. In such cases, however, 
the congressional office does not have greater rights to records than 
the individual. Thus, the disclosure may be withheld from delivery to 
the individual where the file contains investigative or actual 
information or other materials which are being used, or are expected to 
be used, to support prosecution or fines against the individual for 
violations of a statute, or of regulations of the Department based on 
statutory authority. No such limitations apply to records requested for 
Congressional oversight or legislative purposes; release is authorized 
under 49 CFR 10.35(9).
    7. One or more records from a system of records may be disclosed 
routinely to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) in 
records management inspections being conducted under the authority of 
44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906.
    8. Routine Use for disclosure to the Coast Guard and to the 
Transportation Security Administration. A record from this system of 
records may be disclosed as a routine use to the Coast Guard and to the 
Transportation Security Administration if information from this system 
was shared with either agency when that agency was a component of the 
Department of Transportation before its transfer to the Department of 
Homeland Security and such disclosure is necessary to accomplish a DOT, 
TSA or Coast Guard function related to this system of records.
    9. DOT may make available to another agency or instrumentality of 
any government jurisdiction, including State and local governments, 
listings of names from any system of records in DOT for use in law 
enforcement activities, either civil or criminal, or to expose 
fraudulent claims, regardless of the stated purpose for the collection 
of the information in the system of records. These enforcement 
activities are generally referred to as matching programs because two 
lists of names are checked for match using automated assistance. This 
routine use is advisory in nature and does not offer unrestricted 
access to systems of records for such law enforcement and related 
antifraud activities. Each request will be considered on the basis of 
its purpose, merits, cost effectiveness and alternatives using 
Instructions on reporting computer matching programs to the Office of 
Management and Budget, OMB, Congress, and the public, published by the 
Director, OMB, dated September 20, 1989.
    10. It shall be a routine use of the information in any DOT system 
of records to provide to the Attorney General of the United States, or 
his/her designee, information indicating that a person meets any of the 
disqualifications for receipt, possession, shipment, or transport of a 
firearm under the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. In case of a 
dispute concerning the validity of the information provided by DOT to 
the Attorney General, or his/her designee, it shall be a routine use of 
the information in any DOT system of records to make any disclosures of 
such information to the National Background Information Check System, 
established by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, as may be 
necessary to resolve such dispute.
    11a. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, 
to appropriate agencies, entities, and persons when: (1) DOT suspects 
or has confirmed that there has been a breach of the system of records; 
(2) DOT has determined that as a result of the suspected or confirmed 
breach there is a risk of harm to individuals, DOT (including its 
information systems, programs, and operations), the Federal Government, 
or national security; and (3) the disclosure made to such agencies, 
entities, and persons is reasonably necessary to assist in connection 
with DOT's efforts to respond to the suspected or confirmed breach or 
to prevent, minimize or remedy such harm.
    11b. To another Federal agency or Federal entity, when DOT 
determines that information from this system of records is reasonably 
necessary to assist the recipient agency or entity in (1) responding to 
a suspected or confirmed breach or (2) preventing, minimizing, or 
remedying the risk of harm to individuals, the recipient agency or 
entity (including its information systems, programs, and operations), 
the Federal Government, or national security, resulting from a 
suspected or confirmed breach.
    12. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, to 
the Office of Government Information Services for the purpose of (a) 
resolving disputes between FOIA requesters and Federal agencies and (b) 
reviewing agencies policies, procedures and compliance in order to 
recommend policy changes to Congress and the President.
    13. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, to 
contractors and their agents, experts, consultants, and other 
performing or working on a contract, service, cooperative agreement, or 
other assignment for DOT, when necessary to accomplish an agency 
function related to this system of records.
    14. DOT may disclose records from this system, as a routine use, to 
an agency, organization or individual for the purpose of performing 
audit or oversight operations related to this system of records, but 
only such records as are necessary and relevant to the audit or 
oversight activity. This routine use does not apply to intra-agency 
sharing authorized under Section (b)(1) of the Privacy Act.
    15. DOT may disclose from this system, as a routine use, records 
consisting of, or relating to, terrorism information (6 U.S.C. 
485(a)(5)), homeland security information (6 U.S.C. 482(f)(1)), or Law 
enforcement information (Guideline 2 Report attached to White House 
Memorandum, ``Information Sharing Environment,'' November 22, 2006) to 
a Federal, State, local, Tribal, Territorial, foreign government and/or 
multinational agency, either in response to its request or upon the 
initiative of the component for purposes of sharing such information as 
is necessary and relevant for the agencies to detect, prevent, disrupt, 
preempt, and mitigate the effects of terrorist activities against the 
territory, people and interests of the United States of America, as 
contemplated by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 
2004 (Pub. L. 108-458) and Executive Order 13388 (October 25, 2005).

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORAGE OF RECORDS:
    Records are stored in an electronic database.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
    Records are primarily retrieved by personal identifiers, such as 
name, passport and visa numbers.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETENTION AND DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:
    Passport and visa application records will be maintained in 
accordance with National Archives and Records Administration General 
Records Schedule (GRS) 2.2, item 90, Official Passports Records. 
Records are destroyed when 3 years old or upon employee separation or 
transfer, whichever is sooner, but longer

[[Page 54880]]

retention is authorized if required for business use.

ADMINISTRATIVE, TECHNICAL, AND PHYSICAL SAFEGUARDS:
    Records in this system are safeguarded in accordance with 
applicable rules and policies, including all applicable DOT and FAA 
automated systems security and access policies. Strict controls have 
been imposed to minimize the risk of compromising the information that 
is being stored. Access to the computer system containing the records 
in this system is limited to individuals who have a need to know the 
information for the performance of their official duties and who have 
appropriate clearances or permissions.

RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES:
    Individuals seeking notification of whether this system of records 
contains information about them may contact the System Manager at the 
address provided in the section ``System Manager''. When seeking 
records about yourself from this system of records or any other 
Departmental system of records your request must conform to the Privacy 
Act regulations set forth in 49 CFR part 10. You must sign your 
request, and your signature must either be notarized or submitted under 
28 U.S.C. 1746, a law that permits statements to be made under penalty 
of perjury as a substitute for notarization. If your request is seeking 
records pertaining to another living individual, you must include a 
statement from that individual certifying his/her agreement for you to 
access his/her records.

CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES:
    See ``Record Access Procedures'' above.

NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
    See ``Record Access Procedures'' above.

EXEMPTIONS PROMULGATED FOR THE SYSTEM:
    None.

HISTORY:
    None.

    Issued in Washington, DC.
Karyn Gorman,
Departmental Chief Privacy Officer.
[FR Doc. 2025-21358 Filed 11-26-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4910-9X-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>