<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 90 Issue 224 (Monday, November 24, 2025)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 90, Number 224 (Monday, November 24, 2025)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 52883-52892]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2025-20740]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

POSTAL SERVICE

39 CFR Part 111


Postmarks and Postal Possession

AGENCY: Postal Service.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The Postal Service is adding section 608.11, ``Postmarks and 
Postal Possession,'' to the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM). This new 
section defines postmarks, identifies the types of Postal Service 
markings that qualify as postmarks, and describes the circumstances 
under which those markings are applied. It also advises customers of 
how to obtain evidence of the date on which the Postal Service accepts 
possession of their mailings. This new language in the DMM does not 
change any existing postal operations or postmarking practices, but is 
instead intended to improve public understanding of postmarks and their 
relationship to the date of mailing.

DATES: Effective December 24, 2025.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Martha Johnson, Senior Public 
Relations Representative, at <a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#fe939f8c8a969fd08dd0949196908d9190be8b8d8e8dd0999188"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="cda0acbfb9a5ace3bee3a7a2a5a3bea2a38db8bebdbee3aaa2bb">[email&#160;protected]</span></a> or (202) 268-
2000.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Table of Contents

I. Introduction
II. Comments
III. Response to Comments
IV. Explanation of Final Rules

I. Introduction

    On August 12, 2025, the Postal Service published a proposed rule in 
the Federal Register, Postmarks and Postal Possession, 90 FR 38716 
(Aug. 11, 2025)

[[Page 52884]]

(hereafter ``the Proposed Rule''). The Proposed Rule defined the 
postmark and explained the Postal Service's operational use of the 
postmark; identified the types of Postal Service markings that qualify 
as postmarks (together with certain auxiliary markings and scan data 
that are generated during the course of postal operations and that 
indicate postal possession of a mailpiece but do not qualify as 
postmarks); described how and where in the course of postal operations 
such markings are applied; and clarified the scope of information that 
such markings do and do not convey. The Proposed Rule further advised 
that, while the presence of a postmark on a mailpiece confirms that the 
Postal Service was in possession of the mailpiece on the date of the 
postmark's inscription, the postmark date does not inherently or 
necessarily align with the date on which the Postal Service first 
accepted possession of the mailpiece. The Proposed Rule further noted 
that this lack of alignment has and will become more common with the 
implementation of the Regional Transportation Optimization (RTO) 
initiative and the corresponding adoption of ``leg''-based service 
standards. (90 FR 10857). The Proposed Rule then advised customers to 
request a manual (local) postmark at a retail location if they want to 
ensure that their mailpiece receives a postmark containing a date that 
aligns with the date on which the Postal Service first accepted 
possession of their mailpiece, and reminded customers who wish to 
retain proof of the date on which the Postal Service first accepted 
possession of their mailpiece(s) of the services (including 
Certificates of Mailing) that provide such proof. Finally, the Proposed 
Rule submitted a new Section 608.11 of the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM), 
for the public's consideration.
    While the Postal Service has chosen to utilize the notice-and-
comment rulemaking process for this Proposed Rule, we note that this is 
not a rulemaking in the traditional sense. As stated in the Proposed 
Rule, nothing in DMM Section 608.11 effectuates any changes in how, or 
the extent to which, the Postal Service applies postmarks to 
mailpieces. However, the postmark was not previously defined in any 
current Postal Service regulations, and the Postal Service considered 
it appropriate to reflect these existing practices in the DMM to ensure 
that customers have a clear understanding of the postmark and what it 
means.
    The Proposed Rule sought public input on DMM Section 608.11, 
welcoming the perspectives of customers, government entities, industry 
stakeholders, and other interested parties. In particular, the Proposed 
Rule solicited recommendations on how to effectively inform customers 
of the new DMM provision and explain its meaning and feasible 
suggestions to advise and accommodate customers who want proof of the 
date on which the Postal Service first accepted possession of their 
mailings.

II. Comments

    The Postal Service received 130 comments on the Proposed Rule, 
approximately 80 of which consisted of form letters--or, more 
precisely, one of three distinct form letters (each one using similar, 
if not verbatim, language) submitted multiple times. Issues raised by 
these letters include the alleged ``dilution'' of the postmark's 
meaning, impacts on rural and sparsely populated regions, and the 
importance of postmarks for mail-in ballots and other documents (e.g., 
tax returns) subject to strict deadlines. Approximately 25 additional 
comments were submitted by members of the public writing on their own 
behalf; these comments range from simple statements of opposition to 
detailed critiques of proposed DMM Section 608.11. Numerous 
commenters--among them several election officials, one county Board of 
Elections, and certain independent institutions--expound at length on 
mail-in voting, raising concerns about postmarking deadlines and 
potentially discarded Ballot Mail. Finally, some industry mailers and 
labor organizations contributed comments echoing the concerns of other 
commenters, notably with regard to mail-in voting, postmarking 
deadlines more generally, and the need for robust public education and 
outreach. These concerns are discussed more fully below.
    Some commenters suggested operational or staffing changes, new or 
expanded product offerings, educational outreach endeavors, various 
means of communicating relevant information to customers, and detailed 
revisions to DMM Section 608.11. The Postal Service thanks these 
commenters for their recommendations, which are discussed more fully 
below. Some comments raised issues (and/or advanced arguments) outside 
the scope of the present rulemaking. These issues and arguments, which 
will be excluded from the discussion below, include:
    <bullet> Criticism of mail-in voting as a general practice. While 
the Proposed Rule contains information of potential relevance to 
election officials and to citizens who choose to vote by mail, the 
Postal Service does not administer elections, establish the rules or 
deadlines that govern elections, or determine whether or how election 
jurisdictions utilize the mail or incorporate our postmark into their 
rules. The Postal Service also does not advocate for or against any 
particular voting practices (including mail-in voting). Instead, the 
Postal Service collects, processes, transports, and delivers mail and 
packages that are mailable under federal law. As part of that role, we 
deliver the nation's Election Mail when public policy makers and 
election officials choose to use the mail as a part of their election 
system and when citizens choose to utilize our services to participate 
in an election.
    <bullet> Concerns about missed or belatedly applied postmarks. As 
explained in the Proposed Rule, DMM Section 608.11 in no way signals a 
change in our postmarking procedures; postmarks will continue to be 
applied to Single-Piece First Class Mail pieces, both letter-shaped and 
flat-shaped, in the same manner and to the same extent as before. Of 
course, mistakes occur in the normal course of postal operations; the 
Proposed Rule explains as much, noting that occasional circumstances 
may arise where a legible postmark is not applied (for instance when 
two mailpieces are stuck together as they run through a cancelling 
machine, when the machine runs out of ink or smears when applying 
postmarks, and so forth). For this reason, we have informed our 
customers who choose to vote by mail that they can ``ensure that a 
postmark is applied to [their] return ballot by visiting a Postal 
Service retail [location] and requesting a postmark from a retail 
associate when dropping off the ballot.'' Kit 600, USPS Postmarking 
Guidelines (2024), available at <a href="https://about.usps.com/kits/kit600/kit600_039.htm">https://about.usps.com/kits/kit600/kit600_039.htm</a>. That same guidance would also address concerns about 
postmark dates, as the date on a manual (local) postmark applied at 
retail location aligns with the date that the customer tendered the 
return ballot for mailing. The present rulemaking, however, does not 
involve any operational changes that would increase the frequency of 
missed or misapplied postmarks; it is intended to explain the Postal 
Service's operational use of the postmark and to clarify what 
information postmarks can be reliably taken to convey.
    <bullet> Criticisms of the Delivering for America (DFA) strategic 
plan. As noted in the Proposed Rule, RTO increases the likelihood that 
a postmark applied at originating processing facilities--the locations 
where postmarks are typically

[[Page 52885]]

applied--will contain a date that does not align with the date on which 
the Postal Service first accepted possession of the mailpiece. RTO was 
the subject of an earlier rulemaking (90 FR 10857) and separate 
proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC Docket No. 
N2024-1). The Proposed Rule here is intended to define the postmark and 
inform the public of its meaning and operational uses. While the need 
for such clarification is due in part to RTO's changes to 
transportation and processing schedules, which will enable the Postal 
Service to significantly increase our operational efficiency and reduce 
costs, thereby supporting our efforts to continue to provide universal 
postal services in a financially self-sufficient manner, as the law 
requires, neither RTO nor any other initiative within the DFA plan are 
themselves the subject of this Proposed Rule.
    <bullet> Postal Service Funding. One comment urges: ``It's 
essential that the USPS be funded at a level that maintains the service 
on which we rely.'' As an initial matter, the Postal Service, by 
statute, is designed to be self-funded and self-sufficient. The Postal 
Service generally receives no tax dollars for operating expenses and 
relies on the sale of postage, products and services to fund its 
operations. To the extent this comment is recommending legislative 
changes, such recommendations are beyond the scope of this rulemaking 
and the Postal Service's authority. Moreover, while certain operational 
initiatives discussed in the Proposed Rule (e.g., RTO) are designed to 
promote financial sustainability, such initiatives do not themselves 
fall within the scope of the present rulemaking, which is, as noted, 
confined to the postmark. Finally, as explained in the Notice of 
Proposed Rulemaking, the postmark is not, and never has been, a 
service, but has always performed functions (e.g., cancelling postage) 
internal to the Postal Service operations.
    Other comments betray factual misapprehensions that, while not 
addressed in the discussion below, warrant correction. According to one 
comment, voters will be required to ``pay extra'' for expedited 
handling of Ballot Mail. However, this Proposed Rule does not change 
the handing of Ballot Mail or any other mail, but simply clarifies the 
meaning of the postmark. Nor is it correct that, as predicted by other 
comments, current postmarks will be supplanted by new (and 
substantially different) postmarks, replaced in some way by notices 
that Postal Service has possession of a mailpiece, or eliminated in 
their entirety. As noted, DMM Section 608.11 seeks to define the 
postmark as it presently exists, not to change it, and certainly not to 
eliminate it. To reiterate, postmarks will continue to be applied to 
Single-Piece First-Class Mail, both letter-shaped and flat-shaped, in 
the same manner and to the same extent as before.
    All remaining comments within scope of this proceeding are 
addressed below.

III. Response to Comments

A. Issues and Concerns

    Some comments commend the Proposed Rule for the clarity and 
transparency it imparts. One observes that proposed DMM Section 608.11 
``clearly defines and codifies the role of the postmark.'' Another 
``applaud[s] the Postal Service's formalization and coalescence of 
existing policies and understandings regarding postmarks into a single 
uniform rule,'' noting that ``[t]his will provide greater clarity and 
authority regarding the meaning of a postmark. . . .'' The Postal 
Service appreciates these comments, as they acknowledge the intent 
behind the Proposed Rule: not to diminish or supplant the postmark, but 
to clarify its meaning, such that customers better understand what it 
is and the purposes for which it may be relied upon.
    Most comments adopt a more critical posture, but those comments 
generally misapprehend the current meaning of the postmark and the 
purpose of this rulemaking. One expresses concern with the perceived 
impetus behind the Proposed Rule: namely, to ``move the public and 
customers away from viewing the postmark as a definitive date'' on 
which a mailpiece was ``received by the [Postal Service].'' As 
explained in the Proposed Rule, postmarks applied at originating 
processing facilities have never provided a perfectly reliable 
indicator of the date on which the Postal Service first accepted 
possession of a mailpiece, and this fact will become more common under 
RTO. Therefore, to the extent that customers currently have this view 
of the postmark, it does not reflect the realities of postal 
operations. The purpose of DMM Section 608.11, and our forthcoming 
education efforts, is to make the actual meaning of the postmark more 
widely known, so that customers who may currently lack a clear 
understanding of the postmark can, if necessary, make adjustments to 
their mailing behavior--for example, by dispatching their mailings 
earlier, obtaining a manual (local) postmark at a retail location at no 
additional cost, or purchasing a Certificate of Mailing. However, to 
suggest (in the words of one form letter) that ``this proposal quietly 
ends any meaningful reliability of a postmark as indicia or proof of 
mailing'' is completely inaccurate, given that DMM Section 608.11 
plainly states, ``[t]he presence of a postmark confirms that the Postal 
Service accepted custody of a mailpiece, and that the mailpiece was in 
the possession of the Postal Service on the identified date.''
    Some comments urge the Postal Service not to ``implement'' the 
``policies'' described by the Proposed Rule, which also stems from a 
misunderstanding of DMM Section 608.11's nature and scope. These 
comments appear to assume that adoption of this DMM provision will 
prompt operational changes in how the postmark is applied, thereby 
altering the quality of information that postmarks as such convey. One 
comment, for instance, criticizes what it claims to be ``the proposed 
changes to eliminate same-day postmarks.'' This comment ignores, 
however, that ``same-day postmarks'' (i.e., postmarks bearing dates 
that align with the date on which the Postal Service first accepted 
possession of a mailpiece) will in many instances continue to be 
applied through automation and will remain available in all cases upon 
request at the retail counter. Meanwhile, multiple others perceive in 
the Proposed Rule an attempt to ``devalue'' the traditional postmark, 
and/or to ``dilute'' (or even ``destroy'') its alleged status as proof 
of the date that the Postal Service first accepted possession of a 
mailpiece. Yet to reiterate, the Proposed Rule aims to clarify the 
meaning and value of the postmark, not to change its meaning or destroy 
its utility. By notifying the public of the realities of postal 
operations; by offering a definition of the postmark embodied in 
regulation; and by listing out the various available indicia of postal 
possession, the present rulemaking seeks to clarify and preserve, 
rather than erode, the value of the postmark for customers who may rely 
upon it.
    The above concerns may also reflect a view of the postmark 
fundamentally as a service that the Postal Service provides--one on par 
with, for example, reliable mail delivery and P.O. Box rentals. Indeed, 
multiple commenters characterize the postmark in just this way, 
describing it variously as an ``essential benefit,'' a ``public good,'' 
or a ``service'' that the Proposed Rule somehow threatens. This 
conception of the postmark possibly informs the demand, proclaimed in 
one frequently submitted form letter, that the postmark date and the 
date of first postal

[[Page 52886]]

possession be made always and without exception to align. Yet as 
explained in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the postmark is not a 
service, and the Postal Service does not hold it out as such to the 
public. In any event--despite insinuations to the contrary--the 
proposed DMM language does not mean that the Postal Service plans to 
postmark mailpieces less consistently, accurately, or reliably than 
before. As stated throughout this process, this new language in the DMM 
does not change any existing postal operations or postmarking 
practices, but is instead intended to improve public understanding of 
postmarks and their relationship to the date of mailing.
    To be sure, the Postal Service is well aware and readily 
acknowledges that third parties have utilized the postmark for various 
purposes and have potentially infused it with their own particular 
meanings. Indeed, the Proposed Rule identified numerous third-party 
uses of the postmark, including court rules that concern the filing of 
specific documents, federal statutes such as the Internal Revenue 
Service code, state tax statutes and other laws, and numerous election 
jurisdictions that utilize the postmark to accept certain completed 
ballots as timely where they are sent by mail but are received after 
Election Day. Numerous commenters also invoke these third-party uses, 
along with government benefits applications; contract and business 
transactions; insurance claims and premium payments; and sweepstakes, 
contests and promotions. Multiple comments then assert that DMM Section 
608.11 will cause an uptick in missed deadlines. This assertion is 
misplaced. To reiterate, the present rulemaking entails no change to 
postmarking practices but aims instead to educate the public as to the 
postmark's meaning. If customers are aware that the postmark date may 
not align with the date on which the Postal Service first accepted 
possession of a mailpiece, they will be better equipped to adjust their 
plans accordingly. And if policymakers or other entities that create 
rules utilizing the postmark date are aware of what the postmark date 
signifies, they are better equipped to determine whether their rules 
adequately serve their purposes. Through the present rulemaking 
process, the addition of DMM Section 608.11, and further educational 
outreach endeavors (described more fully below), the Postal Service 
seeks to promote such awareness.
    Some comments raise concerns that DMM Section 608.11 will 
disproportionately burden certain groups (including disabled, elderly, 
rural-dwelling, and/or financially distressed users of the mail). As 
noted, the Proposed Rule does not itself propose any changes to current 
postmarking procedures; and insofar as members of the public rely on 
the postmark, they are better served by a rule that clarifies the 
postmark's meaning and lists the options available to those who may 
require a postmark date aligning with the date of first postal 
possession. Such comments may, moreover, confuse the Proposed Rule with 
certain operational and service standard changes (including but not 
limited to RTO) that were discussed at length in a prior rulemaking (90 
FR 10857) and in proceedings before the Postal Regulatory Commission 
(PRC Docket No. N2024-1). Whatever the case, mailers who desire a 
postmark by a particular date are encouraged to take measures to ensure 
that their mail is postmarked by the date they need, when necessary, 
and at no additional cost. Those not able to appear in person at a 
retail location to obtain a manual (local) stamp may choose to mail 
their time-sensitive documents before the relevant deadline, again at 
no additional cost.
    The general concerns discussed above--regarding the postmark's 
alleged ``dilution,'' its purported status as a ``service,'' its uses 
by third parties, and the perceived burdens placed on (at least some) 
mailers--frequently converge on the topic of Election Mail. Indeed, a 
majority of comments invoke Election Mail, and as noted, election 
officials account for a significant portion of the comments received. 
The various (and at times interrelated) issues raised by these comments 
are summarized as follows:
    <bullet> In response to this rulemaking, Boards of Elections will 
encourage voters to avoid mailing in their completed ballots and to use 
drop-boxes instead.
    <bullet> This Proposed Rule, if implemented, could somehow strain 
the resources and capacities of election officials, who might be tasked 
with ``tracking down potentially tens of thousands of ballots'' to 
verify the date on which they were initially accepted by the Postal 
Service rather than simply referring to the postmark date.
    <bullet> This Proposed Rule, if implemented, could suppress voter 
turnout and/or lead to ``disenfranchisement'' (as election officials 
reject mail-in ballots bearing postmark dates past the deadline).
    <bullet> The Proposed Rule is designed to require voters ``to pay 
for services like Certificates of Mailing or to request manual 
postmarks,'' which constitutes an ``an unfair burden.''
    <bullet> This rulemaking will ``erode public confidence in the 
election process,'' diminish the public's confidence in mail-in 
ballots, or is itself ``a deliberate attempt to undermine trust in 
elections.''
    As noted above, the present rulemaking clarifies the meaning of the 
postmark, including for both election officials and voters who choose 
to use the mail to vote. The Postal Service does not administer 
elections, establish the rules or deadlines that govern elections, or 
determine whether or how elections utilize the mail or incorporate our 
postmark. The Postal Service also does not advocate for or against 
voting by mail. Instead, the Postal Service collects, processes, 
transports, and delivers mail and packages, and remains fully committed 
to transporting the nation's Election Mail when public policy makers 
choose to use the mail as a part of their election system or when 
voters choose to utilize our services to participate in an election. 
Boards of Elections and other officials who administer elections are 
free to issue guidance to voters as they see fit. To voters who choose 
to vote by mail, the Postal Service has long recommended as a common-
sense measure that they mail their completed ballot before Election 
Day, and at least one week before it must be received by their local 
election office. Otherwise, the Postal Service has also long advised 
that voters who wish to ensure that a ballot envelope is postmarked on 
the day it is tendered to the Postal Service can request a manual 
(local) postmark at a retail unit, which will be applied to the 
mailpiece free of charge and which will inherently bear a date that 
aligns with the date on which the Postal Service first accepted 
possession of the mailpiece.
    While voters who use mail-in ballots may also elect to purchase a 
Certificate of Mailing, which will provide the individual mailer with a 
receipt indicating the date on which the mailpiece was tendered to the 
Postal Service for mailing, the Postal Service's guidance to voters who 
choose to vote by mail does not include recommending the purchase of a 
Certificate of Mailing. In any event, whether to purchase a Certificate 
of Mailing is a decision for the individual mailer and does not 
constitute a supplemental fee for the act of voting by mail. The Postal 
Service has adjusted the language in the Final Rule so DMM 608.11.5 now 
says customers who wish to retain a record of proof of the date on 
which the Postal Service first accepted possession of their 
mailpiece(s) may purchase a Certificate

[[Page 52887]]

of Mailing, rather than saying that they are encouraged to do so. While 
this language is not specific to Election Mail, the Postal Service 
believes the updated language may avoid further confusion.
    Given that the present rulemaking (together with other educational 
outreach endeavors, discussed below) educates election officials about 
the information conveyed by postmarks and educates voters who choose to 
use the mail to vote that they can take certain measures if they need a 
postmark date that aligns with the date of mailing, it should 
contribute to a more effective use of the mail for their purposes. 
Concerns that DMM Section 608.11 may ``disenfranchise'' voters and/or 
overtax the capacities of Boards of Elections are therefore misplaced.

B. Recommendations

    Many of the above issues and concerns--most especially, though not 
exclusively, the effects of postmarking on Election Mail--were 
accompanied by recommendations. These recommendations fall roughly into 
three categories: outreach and communication, operational and staffing 
changes, and product offerings. The Postal Service thanks the public 
for its constructive input and addresses each category of 
recommendation below.
1. Outreach and Communication
    Multiple comments recommended educational outreach endeavors beyond 
the context of the present rulemaking. As explained below, a 
communications strategy regarding postmarks is indeed under 
development. Overall, our advice is simple: customers who wish to 
obtain a postmark aligning with the date of mailing should request a 
local (manual) at a retail location. The intent of this messaging is to 
provide information that customers would find useful, avoiding 
potential confusion; and to provide information that is accurate and 
does not constrain our operational flexibility. Commenters' 
recommendations regarding educational outreach were evaluated with 
these considerations in mind.
    Some comments recommended that retail locations post notices 
indicating whether mail deposited by a particular time will arrive at 
the processing facility (and be postmarked at that facility) on the day 
of deposit. Such cutoff times, however, cannot always be predicted 
across all locations, given varied operating hours at retail locations, 
unscheduled trips, and transportation contingencies beyond the Postal 
Service's control that may possibly result in delays. This is why, as 
the Proposed Rule explained, the postmark date applied at processing 
never provided a perfectly reliable indicator of the date on which the 
Postal Service first accepted possession of a mailpiece, even before 
RTO. Furthermore, the service standard changes coincident with RTO's 
implementation (90 FR 10857) confer operational flexibility by 
divorcing collection schedules from transportation and processing 
schedules. As noted in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and elsewhere, 
with an extra day allotted for transportation to the originating 
processing facility, originating processing operations (including 
automated machine cancellations) do not need to respond reactively to 
volume arrivals, but can instead allocate processing capacity more 
predictably and efficiently based on known volume arrival profiles. 
USPS-T-4, PRC Docket No. N2024-1 (October 4, 2024), <a href="https://prc.arkcase.com/portal/filings/131269">https://prc.arkcase.com/portal/filings/131269</a>. Displays of the type of cutoff 
times recommended here would compel more rigid transportation schedules 
and would as a result constrain the very flexibility that RTO was in 
part designed to accommodate, thereby blunting the downstream network 
efficiencies that such flexibility allows. It is, therefore, neither 
practical, nor in all cases possible, to display ``same-day postmark'' 
cutoff times at retail locations. It is also unnecessary, as customers 
at those retail locations who need a postmark with the date of 
acceptance can ensure that their mailpieces receive that day's postmark 
by bringing their mailpieces to the retail counter and requesting a 
manual (local) postmark, free of charge. This option serves the purpose 
underlying the above-mentioned recommendation, while preserving the 
Postal Service's operational flexibility.
    One comment suggests modifying blue collection box labels to 
indicate whether mail deposited by a particular time will arrive at the 
processing facility (and be postmarked at that facility) on the day of 
deposit. Blue collection box labels indicate when mail is retrieved 
from the boxes themselves, which is relevant information to the mailer 
who may be concerned about how long their mail may sit in the blue 
collection box prior to a carrier retrieving it. As RTO does not alter 
these retrieval times but instead impacts outgoing transportation 
schedules from delivery units, the suggested label modifications would 
convey supplementary information concerning downstream transportation, 
further compounding the risk of customer confusion. Moreover, for the 
reasons discussed above, transportation and processing schedules cannot 
always be predicted with enough precision to make such information 
consistently dependable, which could make such displays misleading for 
customers who seek to obtain postmarks reflecting that day's date. 
Nevertheless, blue collection boxes already feature QR codes that link 
to our public website, <a href="http://usps.com">usps.com</a>, which includes a tool for mailers to 
locate the closest Post Office; and the Postal Service plans to include 
on <a href="http://usps.com">usps.com</a> information on postmarks and postmark dates, including a 
recommendation that mailers bring their mail to a retail location and 
request a manual (local) postmark if they need a postmark with a date 
aligning with the date of mailing.
    Multiple comments urged the Postal Service to launch a ``massive 
education program'' regarding postmarks, including notification to 
customers that the date on a postmark applied at a processing facility 
may not align with the date on which the Postal Service first accepts 
possession of a mailpiece (including a vote-by-mail ballot), newly 
established points of contact ``to address public concerns,'' and close 
collaboration with election officials. In addition to the present 
rulemaking, the Postal Service is developing an approach to provide 
public and internal education regarding postmarking. We will engage in 
a coordinated effort to post customer-facing information on <a href="http://usps.com">usps.com</a>, 
including making it easier to find resources we have already developed 
to provide information about the service standard changes generally, 
and about postmarking specifically. We will also engage in targeted 
education to specific mailing communities, including election 
officials. For example, we plan to include in the Official Election 
Mail communication (known as Kit 600), which we send to Boards of 
Election nationwide in advance of each federal general election season, 
specific information about DMM Section 608.11 and practical advice on 
mail-in voting consistent with prior advice (i.e., that voters mail 
their completed ballots before Election Day and at least one week 
before it must be received by their election office), along with 
contact information for stakeholders who wish to inquire further. 
Furthermore, the Postal Service has established points of contact with 
election officials in every jurisdiction throughout the country, and we 
plan to communicate clear information on postmarking and address any 
areas of concern.
    As the date of first postal possession and the date on the postmark 
applied at processing facilities will diverge most frequently in ZIP 
Codes subject to RTO, some comments suggest that RTO-

[[Page 52888]]

impacted facilities be widely publicized. This recommendation, which 
the Postal Service has seen in the context of service-standard changes 
more broadly as well, is, however, less helpful or straightforward than 
it may initially seem. Regarding both postmarking and service 
standards, the Postal Service's intent is to provide information to 
customers that is most useful and understandable (as opposed to putting 
the onus on the customer to determine what it means if a Post Office is 
or is not subject to RTO). While some information may be gleaned from 
an RTO designation, the Postal Service does not want customers to 
attach unwarranted significance to that designation. For example, 
whether a Post Office is subject to RTO does not determine the actual 
service standard for a given mailpiece; both the origin and the 
destination of the mailpiece must be considered. USPS.com features a 
service-standard lookup tool that provides this information accurately, 
without forcing customers to identify the various elements of our rules 
for determining service expectations. Customers apprised of whether a 
specific Post Office is subject to RTO may draw conclusions at odds 
with the lookup tool's outputs--as RTO is one of several inputs 
determining service standards, and the ``leg 2'' acceleration that RTO 
underwrites may counterbalance any day added within ``leg 1.'' 
Regarding the postmark, because the Postal Service has never guaranteed 
that the postmark date would align with the date of mailing, our 
messaging to customers is the same whether or not their Post Office is 
subject to RTO: customers should request a manual (local) postmark at a 
retail location if they want to ensure that their mailpiece receives a 
postmark containing a date that aligns with the date on which the 
Postal Service first accepted possession of their mailpiece. For these 
reasons, the Postal Service has chosen to focus on user-friendly tools 
and messaging, rather than identifying specific locations that may be 
subject to RTO transportation schedules.
2. Operational and Staffing Changes
    Multiple comments recommended additional accommodations at retail 
locations for customers who desire a manual (local) postmark aligning 
with the date of first postal possession--for instance, a dedicated 
mail slot where customers can request such a postmark, or alternately, 
a special window held open during certain times of year (e.g., tax 
season). The Postal Service has taken these recommendations under 
advisement, and, if there appears to be a need, we will consider making 
appropriate adjustments to retail operations as feasible.
    Some comments also recommend that the Postal Service deploy extra 
staff in the days and weeks preceding important deadlines, and/or 
provide additional training for postal personnel in anticipation of 
such deadlines. As yet, however, there is no evidence of surging retail 
traffic by customers desiring a postmark ahead of various deadlines 
that might necessitate additional staff to ensure that sensitive 
documents receive a postmark. Indeed, the overriding concern expressed 
in comments, as noted above, is not that mailpieces will not be 
postmarked at all--an issue beyond the scope of the present 
rulemaking--but rather that postmarks applied by automated machinery 
will inscribe a date later than the date of first postal possession: a 
concern that additional retail staff would not directly address. The 
Postal Service therefore deems the request for additional retail 
staffing premature, though it will continue to monitor the need for 
such staffing.
    One comment demanded that ``for periods close to key election 
dates, USPS . . . adjust its Regional Transport Optimization initiative 
to hire and employ . . . additional staff and transportation vehicles 
to ensure that ballots are timely transported to RPDC/LPC locations to 
receive a timely postmark.'' It should be noted that the deployment of 
additional transportation, when warranted to ensure timely delivery, is 
part of the Postal Service's normal business practices, and the Postal 
Service will continue to monitor the need for such deployments at all 
times of year. Regarding ``timely postmarks,'' the Postal Service's 
messaging is intended to make clear to customers what ``timely'' means 
in terms of postal operations so customers can plan accordingly.
    Some commenters recommend quarantining RTO-volume and non-RTO 
volume into distinct batches, and postmarking those batches separately, 
as this would in theory allow the postmark dates on RTO volume to be 
rolled back to the date on which the Postal Service took possession of 
it. The Postal Service has considered the feasibility of such a 
procedure, and has concluded that it would prove operationally 
impracticable, cost-prohibitive, and contrary to the aims of RTO. There 
is no reliable way to segregate RTO from non-RTO volume within all 
originating processing facilities; any attempt to do so would add 
significant complexity to an already complex set of operations, 
delivering inconsistent results at an inordinate cost. Furthermore, the 
volume arrival profiles enabled by RTO--which in turn allow for more 
efficient staffing, more productive machine deployments, and earlier 
dispatches into the network--depend on the simultaneous processing of 
RTO and non-RTO volume within compressed timeframes. Direct Testimony 
of Gregory White, USPS-T-4, PRC Docket No. N2024-1 (October 4, 2024), 
at 13-19, 25-35, <a href="https://prc.arkcase.com/portal/filings/131269">https://prc.arkcase.com/portal/filings/131269</a>. These 
processing efficiencies, which underwrite accelerated service standards 
for a majority of market-dominant mail volume, and which are expected 
to yield significant cost savings over time, would be unlikely to 
survive a scheme designed (again, unreliably) to cancel RTO and non-RTO 
volume in separate batches, each with its own distinct postmark date. 
Adding such costs and complexity is particularly unsupportable given 
the Postal Service's financial condition, and when there are means 
available for those customers who want to ensure that the postmark 
reflects the day of acceptance to do so.
    Some comments recommend postmarking all mail before it leaves the 
retail unit for processing. This recommendation would also add 
significant costs and is therefore not being accepted. The Postal 
Service discontinued this practice decades ago, and the practice had 
functionally disappeared well before that. As such, some historical 
context regarding automated postmarking may be helpful. The Postal 
Service has for many years relied on machines at processing facilities 
to postmark mail; indeed, versions of the Advanced Facer Canceller 
System now currently deployed date back to the early 1990s, and were 
themselves acquired to replace an earlier generation of facer 
cancellers. That replacement was completed in 2008. (Postal Service 
High-Speed Sorters Get Smarter, Faster). As the Postal Service 
explained in a 2008 Postal Bulletin (<a href="https://about.usps.com/postal-bulletin/2008/html/pb22238/html/updt_001.html">https://about.usps.com/postal-bulletin/2008/html/pb22238/html/updt_001.html</a>): ``Cancellation and 
routine postmarking of mail at Post Offices, except for transactions at 
the retail window, were made obsolete with the mechanized cancellation 
systems installed at larger facilities in the 1970s. After the 
installation of the Advanced Facer Canceller Systems (AFCSs) at 
processing plants more than 15 years ago, routine cancellation of mail 
at local Post Offices was virtually eliminated. The efficiencies of the 
AFCSs help keep postage rates as low as possible for all

[[Page 52889]]

customers.'' In light of this shift away from routine postmarking at 
retail locations, the Postal Service amended Postal Operations Manual 
(POM) Section 312.2 to provide, in language that persists to this day, 
that ``[c]ustomers may request a local postmark at the retail counter 
at all Post Offices, stations, and branches.'' As the circumstances 
underlying this revision have not changed--that is, as the AFCS 200 
machines deployed in processing facilities continue to provide a 
significantly more efficient means of postmarking mail than would the 
practice of applying postmarks at retail facilities as a matter of 
course--the Postal Service would not be justified in turning back the 
clock.
    In a similar vein, other comments propose that all mailpieces 
deposited at retail locations by customers receive a manual (local) 
handstamp as a matter of course, and not merely upon request. POM 
Section 312.2 was adopted in its current form for a reason, however. As 
noted, automated processing machines at processing facilities provide a 
much more efficient means of postmarking mail than would 19th-century-
style production lines of hand-stampers housed in every Post Office, 
station, and branch. We recognize that some customers may want to 
ensure that a piece of mail sent on a particular day receives a 
postmark bearing that day's date, and we accommodate those customers by 
applying a manual (local) postmark upon the customer's request when 
they tender their mail at a retail location. To go beyond that 
accommodation, by creating a separate postmarking process in which all 
mailings deposited at retail facilities receive a manual postmark 
regardless of mailer intent or need, would result in significant 
additional costs and inefficiencies.
    Finally, one form letter urges that postmarks should indicate the 
date and time of a mailpiece's receipt by the Postal Service. As an 
initial matter, none of our postmarking methods--including manual 
postmarks applied at retail or machine postmarks applied at 
processing--entail stamping a specific time of day on a mailpiece. Even 
as to the date, reengineering the postmark so that it always shows the 
date of initial postal possession would vitiate the current processing 
system, as the automated cancellation system deployed at processing 
facilities affords no visibility into the date (much less the precise 
time) when a mailpiece first entered postal possession. As observed in 
the Proposed Rule, the date on postmarks applied at processing 
facilities represents the date of the first automated processing 
operation applied at that facility. The machines that apply the 
postmarks, and the staff who operates those machines, have no way of 
ascertaining whether that date happens to align with the date on which 
the Postal Service initially took possession of any specific mailpiece. 
As machines can feasibly inscribe only the date of cancellation, 
implementation of a postmark that uniformly inscribes the date of first 
postal acceptance would, in practical terms, require the circumvention 
of all such machines in favor of a manual stamp applied at the point of 
collection--resulting in the operational costs and inefficiencies noted 
above. Again, for customers who need a postmark with that day's date, 
they can go to a Postal Service-operated retail location and request a 
manual (local) postmark when dropping off their mail.
3. Product Offerings
    One commenter recommends expanding services within the Informed 
Greetings platform, which generates an Intelligent Mail[supreg] Barcode 
(IMb), to provide insights into when and where the Postal Service had 
possession of a mailpiece. First, it bears noting that the Informed 
Greetings platform was not designed for this purpose; its intended use 
is, instead, to assist customers in the creation of digital greetings 
that then accompany the dispatch of physical mail--and the Postal 
Service has no intention of expanding this relatively specialized 
product into an all-purpose mail-tracking system. Furthermore, as noted 
in the Proposed Rule, IMb scans indicate possession of a mailpiece, but 
do not constitute evidence of the date when the Postal Service first 
accepted possession of a mailpiece, and neither does their absence 
imply that the Postal Service never accepted possession of a mailpiece. 
The Postal Service does not consider such scans to serve as proof of 
the date of postal acceptance; they therefore are not adequate 
substitutes for a manual (local) postmark applied at retail or services 
such as Certificates of Mailing.

C. Proposed Revisions to DMM 608.11

    One comment urges the Postal Service to include in DMM Section 
608.11 ``its longstanding policy and practice that all Ballot Mail 
returned by voters should receive a postmark.'' If the present 
rulemaking effectuated a change in postmarking practices impacting 
Ballot Mail, such an addition would perhaps be appropriate. As noted, 
however, the present rulemaking is intended to explain the Postal 
Service's operational use of the postmark, identify the markings that 
qualify as postmarks, and clarify what information such markings can be 
reliably taken to convey. As such, it does not signal any change to 
postmarking practices, which will continue to the same extent as 
before. This holds true for Ballot Mail, most of which is sent as 
Single-Piece First-Class Mail, and which the Postal Service postmarks 
in the manner described by the present rulemaking. (It bears mentioning 
that the additional efforts to postmark all Ballot Mail fall under the 
Postal Service's practices specifically related to Election Mail, and 
that these measures exceed the present rulemaking's scope and are as 
such not contemplated by DMM 608.11). The Postal Service therefore 
declines to adopt this suggested revision.
    Some comments recommend the inclusion of language in the DMM 
stating that IMb scans may serve as proof of mailing. The Postal 
Service declines to adopt this suggestion, as DMM Section 608.11 
already contains an entry on IMb scans. As noted there, IMb scans 
indicate that a mailpiece was in the Postal Service's possession, but 
do not constitute evidence of the date when the Postal Service first 
accepted possession of a mailpiece.
    One commenter proposed numerous detailed revisions to DMM Section 
608.11. The Postal Service thanks this commenter for their thorough 
engagement and addresses the commenter's recommendations at length as 
follows.
    Regarding Section 608.11.1, the commenter observes, correctly, that 
when mail that otherwise would be cancelled on an automated processing 
machine is unable to be cancelled, it is the Postal Service's practice 
to apply a manual postmark to such mail at an originating processing 
facility. The commenter then opines that the proposed definition 
offered by Section 608.11.1 does not account for this eventuality. Such 
manual postmarks, however, are typically applied after a mailpiece is 
rejected by an automated processing machine; and the originally 
proposed language of Section 608.11.1, which indexes the postmark date 
to the performance of automated processing operations, does indeed 
contemplate those rare instances when a mailpiece is in this way 
rejected (and subsequently hand-stamped).
    The commenter also recalls that, as explained by the Proposed Rule, 
the Postal Service utilizes a ``rollover'' time on its processing 
machines to reflect the fact that originating operations for particular 
mailpieces occur overnight, and hence those operations can cross 
calendar days. On this basis, the

[[Page 52890]]

commenter recommends that Section 608.11.1 align the postmark date as 
applied at processing facilities with ``the date on which the mailpiece 
was inducted into processing.'' The Postal Service declines to adopt 
this revision, for two reasons. First, the phrase ``was inducted into 
processing'' may be taken to mean ``arrived at a processing facility''; 
some volume, however, may arrive at a processing facility before 
midnight, but after that day's cutoff time for processing--a nuance 
that the proposed revision, if interpreted in this manner, would fail 
to capture. Second, ``inducted into processing'' may instead be taken 
to mean ``entered into processing operations''; and such a construction 
would not account for volume that arrives before the cutoff time for 
processing operations, and thus receives a postmark aligned with its 
date of arrival, but is not ``inducted into processing'' until after 
midnight. In light of these complexities, the Postal Service has 
determined that the original proposed language supplies the most 
comprehensible, succinct, and accurate formulation available to 
describe postmark dates as applied at processing facilities.
    The commenter also observes that some postmarks display location 
indicators (such as ``Metroplex, MI'') that do not strictly correspond 
to geographical entities, but instead map onto postal processing 
facilities; accordingly, the commenter recommends that in Section 
608.11.1, postmarks be characterized as displaying the ``name or 
location'' (rather than just the location) of the facility in which 
they were applied. This recommendation is well-taken and will be 
incorporated into the Final Rule.
    Finally, the commenter recommends that Section 608.11.1 be broken 
into shorter sentences. In its original proposed form, Section 608.11.1 
aimed to encompass the entire definition of ``postmarks'' within one 
sentence in order to emphasize that postmarks are officially defined by 
Section 608.11.1 in its entirety. The Postal Service acknowledges, 
however, that simplified syntax would likely make Section 608.11.1 
easier to understand, and it is already clear that the entirety of the 
text in Section 608.11.1, whether expressed as a single sentence or as 
multiple sentences, constitutes the definition of a ``postmark,'' just 
as the Section title implies. We will therefore revise Section 608.11.1 
in a manner consistent with the commenter's recommendations in this 
regard.
    Regarding Section 608.11.2, the commenter urges greater specificity 
in the description of manual postmarks that are applied at processing 
facilities to non-machinable mail. Namely, in lieu of the phrase, 
``when a mailpiece that would ordinarily be postmarked on an automated 
cancellation machine is unable to be canceled,'' the commenter suggests 
language specifying that mail characteristics may impact machinability. 
The original proposed language, however, captures the circumstance 
evoked by the commenter--mailpieces may, after all, prove ``unable to 
be cancelled'' due to their physical characteristics. The Postal 
Service therefore declines to adopt the suggested specification.
    The commenter also observes that while some Postage Validation 
Imprint (PVI) labels display the city, state, and ZIP Code of the 
postal facility at which they are printed, others display only the 
facility's ZIP Code. On this basis, the commenter disputes the accuracy 
of DMM Section 608.11.2 as originally proposed, insofar as it 
represents that PVI labels ``indicate . . . the location of the retail 
unit at which the mailpiece was accepted.'' While it is true that some 
PVI labels feature only the ZIP code of the relevant facility, this 
fact is not, in the Postal Service's view, inconsistent with the 
language of Section 608.11.2 as proposed, since ZIP Codes designate 
location.
    Finally, the commenter recommends that Section 608.11.2 state 
explicitly that local (manual) postmarks may be obtained free of 
charge. The Postal Service agrees that a reminder of this postal policy 
would be helpful and will therefore make conforming changes to Section 
608.11.2. The phrase ``first accepts possession'' occurs regularly in 
the Proposed Rule, including throughout the proposed DMM Section. The 
commenter criticizes this phrase on two grounds: that the qualifier 
``first'' is redundant (since in nearly every conceivable instance, the 
Postal Service accepts possession of a mailpiece only once); and that 
the phrase as a whole is supposedly inaccurate (in that the Postal 
Service does not in fact ``accept possession'' of mailpieces, but 
rather ``takes possession'' of them, often in an allegedly passive 
manner). For these reasons, the commenter suggests replacing the phrase 
``first accepts possession,'' with the phrase ``first possesses.'' On 
the first count, the phrase ``first accepts possession'' has the merit 
of accentuating that there is a point in time when the Postal Service 
(through its employees) has taken custody of a mailpiece through some 
affirmative action--collecting the mail from a residence or a 
collection box, accepting a mailpiece tendered to a retail employee by 
a customer, etc. On the second count, the difference between ``first 
accepting possession,'' ``first taking possession,'' and ``first 
possessing'' is less than fully clear; if, as the commenter hints, the 
latter formulation implies a certain measure of passivity in how the 
Postal Service takes possession of the mail, its premise is inaccurate. 
The Postal Service, acting through its employees, actively takes 
possession of mailpieces tendered by mailers. Indeed, the notion of 
accepting possession more precisely renders the transactional nexus 
between the Postal Service and its customers, since custody of a 
mailpiece cannot properly be transferred unless it is both voluntarily 
offered and affirmatively received. For these reasons, DMM 608.11 will 
retain the phrase, ``first accepts possession.''

IV. Explanation of Final Rules

    After evaluating the comments, the Postal Service is adopting the 
new DMM Section 608.11. The final text of DMM Section 608.11 
incorporates the revisions noted above. The Postal Service will also, 
on its own initiative, make two amendments concerning manual (local) 
postmarks obtained at retail locations. First, the phrase ``Manual 
(local) postmarks are available, upon a customer's request . . . ,'' in 
Section 608.11.2, is changed to ``Manual (local) postmarks are applied 
to a mailpiece, upon a customer's request. . . .'' Second, Section 
608.11.4 includes the following reminder of the 50 mailpiece limit for 
manual (local) postmarks: ``Customers planning to present significant 
mail volume--50 or more mailpieces--for (local) postmarks should 
contact the postmaster or other manager in advance to ensure that 
adequate resources are available.''
    The Postal Service adopts the described changes to Mailing 
Standards of the United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual 
(DMM), incorporated by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations. We 
will publish an appropriate amendment to 39 CFR part 111 to reflect 
these changes.

List of Subjects in 39 CFR Part 111

    Administrative practice and procedure, Postal Service.

    Accordingly, the Postal Service amends Mailing Standards of the 
United States Postal Service, Domestic Mail Manual (DMM), incorporated 
by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations as follows (see 39 CFR 
111.1):

PART 111--[AMENDED]

0
1. The authority citation for 39 CFR part 111 continues to read as 
follows:


[[Page 52891]]


    Authority:  5 U.S.C. 552(a); 13 U.S.C. 301-307; 18 U.S.C. 1692-
1737; 39 U.S.C. 101, 401-404, 414, 416, 3001-3018, 3201-3220, 3401-
3406, 3621, 3622, 3626, 3629, 3631-3633, 3641, 3681-3685, and 5001.


0
2. Revise the Mailing Standards of the United States Postal Service, 
Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) as follows:
* * * * *

600 Basic Standards for All Mailing Services

* * * * *

608 Postal Information and Resources

* * * * *
    [Add the text of part 11 to read as follows:]

11.0 Postmarks and Postal Possession

11.1 Postmark Defined

    A postmark is a marking applied by the Postal Service to a 
mailpiece. If applied at a retail unit, the postmark displays the name 
or location of the retail unit and the date on which the mailpiece was 
accepted at the retail unit. If applied at a processing facility, the 
postmark displays the name or location of the processing facility and 
the date of the first automated processing operation performed on that 
mailpiece. Where necessary, a postmark also cancels postage so that it 
cannot be reused.

11.2 Locations at Which a Postmark Is Applied

    Postmarks are generally applied by the Postal Service via 
automation on machines in originating processing facilities but may 
also be applied manually by Postal Service personnel at those 
facilities, or by a Postal Service employee at a retail unit when a 
customer presents a mailpiece at a retail counter and requests a 
postmark.
    <bullet> Automated Machine-Applied Postmarks. These are applied by 
automated cancellation machines located in originating processing 
facilities, including in Regional Processing and Distribution Centers 
(RPDCs) and select Local Processing Centers (LPCs). Automated machine-
applied postmarks cancel postage and identify the processing facility 
that applied the postmark and the date of the first automated 
processing operation performed on that mailpiece. Mailpieces prepared 
according to certain criteria will bypass automated cancellation to 
improve delivery speed.
    <bullet> Manual Postmarks on Non-Machinable Mail at Processing 
Facilities. Where a mailpiece that would ordinarily be postmarked on an 
automated cancellation machine is unable to be canceled, the Postal 
Service's common practice is to apply a manual postmark to the 
mailpiece at the originating processing facility. Like automated 
machine cancellations, these manual postmarks register the facility at 
which the mailpiece was received and the date that the first automated 
processing operation would have been performed on that mailpiece.
    <bullet> Postmarks at Retail Locations: Manual (local) postmarks 
are applied to mailpieces, upon a customer's request, free of charge at 
the retail counter of every Post Office, station, or branch. Manual 
(local) postmarks at retail locations cancel postage (if necessary), 
and indicate the location of the retail unit at which the postmark is 
applied and the date on which the mailpiece was accepted at that unit.
    <bullet> Postage Validation Imprint (PVI) Labels at Retail 
Locations. These are printed by Postal Service employees at retail 
locations and are applied to a mailpiece by a Postal Service employee 
upon acceptance of the piece. These labels indicate the postage paid 
for a mailpiece and, like manual (local) postmarks applied at retail 
locations, indicate the location of the retail unit at which the 
postmark is applied and the date on which the mailpiece was accepted at 
that unit.

11.3 Information Conveyed by a Postmark

    The presence of a postmark confirms that the Postal Service 
accepted custody of a mailpiece, and that the mailpiece was in the 
possession of the Postal Service on the identified date. However, for 
the reasons that are further described below, the postmark date does 
not necessarily indicate the first day that the Postal Service had 
possession of the mailpiece. Moreover, the absence of a postmark does 
not imply that the Postal Service did not accept custody of a 
mailpiece, because the Postal Service does not postmark all mail in the 
ordinary course of operations.
    The name or location displayed on a postmark shows the processing 
facility or retail unit at which the postmark was applied. The date 
displayed on a postmark shows the date of the first automated 
processing operation performed on a mailpiece or, alternately, the date 
when a mailpiece was accepted at a retail unit. Because most postmarks 
are applied at processing facilities, they do not necessarily represent 
either the place at which, or the date on which, the Postal Service 
first accepted possession of the mailpiece. The date inscribed by a 
postmark applied at a processing facility may be later than the date 
that the mailpiece was first accepted by the Postal Service. See 11.5. 
for options available to customers who seek proof of the date on which 
the Postal Service first accepted custody of a mailpiece.

11.4 Postmarks Aligning With the Date of Acceptance

    Customers who want a postmark aligning with the date on which the 
Postal Service first accepted possession of their mailpiece may 
request, for no additional fee, a manual (local) postmark at any Post 
Office, station, or branch when tendering their mailpiece. Customers 
planning to present significant mail volume--50 or more mailpieces--for 
(local) postmarks should contact the postmaster or other manager in 
advance to ensure that adequate resources are available.
    Because a manual (local) postmark is applied upon acceptance at the 
retail counter, the date on that postmark aligns with the date on which 
the Postal Service first accepted possession of the mailpiece. 
Similarly, the date on PVI labels, which are applied by Postal Service 
employees at the retail counter at any Post Office, station, or branch 
to a mailpiece for which a customer is simultaneously paying for 
postage and tendering the mailpiece for mailing, also aligns with the 
date on which the Postal Service first accepted possession of a 
mailpiece.
    Please note that pre-printed labels applied by the customer prior 
to mailing--e.g., postage printed from Self-Service Kiosks (SSK), 
Click-N-Ship online postage, and meter strips--show merely that a 
customer has purchased postage and the date on which the postage was 
printed; they do not in themselves demonstrate that the Postal Service 
accepted the mailpiece, or the date on which any such acceptance 
occurred.

11.5 Services Proving the Date of Postal Acceptance

    Customers who wish to retain a record or proof of the date on which 
the Postal Service first accepted possession of their mailpiece(s) may 
purchase a Certificate of Mailing. As described more fully in Section 
500.5, a Certificate of Mailing is a service designed to provide 
evidence that individual mailpieces have been presented for mailing. As 
described more fully in Sections 500.2 and 500.3 respectively, 
Registered Mail and Certified Mail services also provide mailing 
receipts for individual mailpieces.

11.6 Auxiliary Markings and Data

    During the course of postal operations, the Postal Service may 
inscribe markings on mailpieces and/or

[[Page 52892]]

generate scan data. Such auxiliary markings and data indicate 
possession of a mailpiece; however, they do not constitute evidence of 
the date when the Postal Service first accepted possession of a 
mailpiece. Furthermore, the absence of these auxiliary markings or data 
does not imply that the Postal Service did not accept possession of a 
mailpiece.
    A non-exhaustive list of such auxiliary markings and data include:
    <bullet> Identification Tags. Mailpieces processed on automated 
machines (i.e., mailpieces that are not deposited through bulk or 
commercial methods) are typically imprinted with a fluorescent 
identification tag. This tag encodes a variety of information, 
including the date on which the tag itself was applied.
    <bullet> Scans of an Intelligent Mail[supreg] Barcode (IMb). As 
more fully described in Section 204.1, IMbs are applied by customers to 
mailpieces--primarily to letters, flats, and cards (as well as to 
certain competitive product mailings, such as USPS Priority 
Mail[supreg])--and encode a variety of data, including the identity of 
the mailer, the services requested, a serial number, and a routing 
code. The IMb itself does not verify Postal Service possession, as it 
is applied by a customer before a mailpiece is tendered to the Postal 
Service. Rather, IMbs are typically scanned at various points in a 
mailpiece's trajectory, and each scan event reflects the time and place 
of the scan. Where the mailer includes unique serial numbers on each 
mailpiece containing an IMb, IMb scan data can be used to track the 
processing of specific mailpieces. Commercial mailers can access IMb 
scan data via the Informed Visibility interface. Please note that for 
information generated by IMb scans to be accurate, IMbs must be 
properly prepared as specified in Section 204.1. Duplicate and/or 
illegible barcodes will compromise the availability and reliability of 
scan event data.
* * * * *

Kevin Rayburn,
Attorney, Ethics & Legal Compliance.
[FR Doc. 2025-20740 Filed 11-21-25; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 7710-12-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>